SAMUEL

T H E

ADLER

S T U D Y O E

O R C H E S T R A T ld N

T H I R D

E D ! T I O N

THE STUDY OF

O R C H E S TR A TIO N
THIRD EDITION

Samuel Adler
Professor Emeritus, Eastman School of Music of the University of Rochester
Composition Faculty, Juilliard School of Music

И
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.
New York

London

Copyright © 2002,1989,1982 by W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.

All rights reserved
Printed in the United States of America
The text of this book is composed in Palatino & Sonata with the display set in
Frutiger & Copperplate.
Editor: Suzanne La Plante
Manuscript Editor: Barbara Curialle Gerr
Project Editor: Julie Schnepel
Proofreaders: Lisa Robinson, Claire McCabe, music;
Rosanne Fox, Julie Schnepel, text
Research and Editorial Assistants: Jan Hoeper, Claire McCabe
Director of Manufacturing: Roy Tedoff
Book Design: Joan Greenfield
Composition: UG / GGS Information Services, Inc.
Music Composition: Kenneth Yarmey, with Yuzuru Sadashige
Layout Artist: Roberta Flechner
Manufacturing: Quebecor/World
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Adler, Samuel, 1928The study of orchestration / Samuel Adler.—3rd ed.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-393-97572-X
1. Instrumentation and orchestration. I. Title
MT70.A3 2001
781.3'74—-dc21

99-055023

W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10110
www.wwnorton.com
W. W. Norton & Company, Ltd., Castle House, 75/76 Wells St.,
London WIT 3QT
7 8 9 0

CONTENTS

Preface ix

P A R T O N E . IN STRUM EN TATIO N
4

1

The Orch estra—
Y es t e r d a y and Today

P l u c k e d S t r in g i n s t r u m e n t s
з

H^rp

2

B o w e d S t r in g In s t r u m e n t s

7

Construction 8
Tuning 9
Fingering 10
Double, Triple, and Quadruple Stops 11
Divided Strings 12
Vibrato 14
Glissando and Portamento 15
The Bow 16
Bowing 17
Non legato 17
Legato 18
Special On-the-String Bowings 21
Special Off-the-String Bowings 26
Trills and Other Coloristic Effects Using
the Bow 28
Coloristic Effects without the Bow 33
Mutes 39
Scordatura 40
Harmonics 41
Contemporary String Techniques 49
3
In d iv id u a l B o w e d S t r in g
in s t r u m e n t s
51

Violin 51
Viola 65
Violoncello or Cello 75
Double Bass 83

89

89

Guitar 101
Mandolin 103
Banjo 106
Zither 108
5
S c o r in g f o r S t r i n g s

hi

Individuality within the Ensemble 111
Foreground—Middleground—Background
118

Contrapuntal Writing for Strings 133
Homophonic Writing for Strings 143
Using the String Choir to Accompany a
Soloist 152
Transcribing from Piano to Strings 159

6
T h e W o o d w in d c h o i r
(REED AEROPHONES) 164

Construction 164
Classifying Woodwind Instruments 165
The Principle of Transposition 167
Playing Techniques 170
The Woodwind Section of a Symphony
Orchestra 177
Scoring for Woodwind Instruments 178
7
In d iv id u a l Wo o d w in d s

Flute 180
Piccolo 189

iso

vi

Co n ten ts

Alto Flute 191
Bass Flute 193
Oboe 193
English Horn 199
Other Members of the Oboe Family 201
Clarinet 205
"Piccolo" Clarinet: Clarinet in D or El 211
Bass Clarinet 212
Other Members of the Clarinet Family 215
Saxophone 217
Bassoon 221
Contrabassoon 225

S c o r in g f o r W o o d w in d s
AND WOODWIND-STRING
C o m b i n a t i o n s 229
The Role of Winds in the Symphony Orchestra
229
The Variety of Orchestral Treatments 238
Homophonic Writing for Winds 252
Contrapuntal Writing for Winds 261
Using the Wind Choir to Provide a
Contrasting Color 270
Using the Wind Choir to Double Other
Instruments of the Orchestra 276
New Types of Articulations for Woodwinds
283
Special Effects 288
Transcribing from Piano to Winds and Strings
291

INTRODUCTION TO BRASS
INSTRUMENTS 295
Composition of the Brass Section 2%
Brass Instruments and the Written Orchestral
Score 297
Overblowing and the Principle of the
Harmonic Series 298
Crooks, Valves, and Slides 301
Range 303
Tone Production, Articulation, and Tonguing
303
Common Characteristics and Effects on All
Brass Instruments 304

Mutes 307
Muting Devices Other Than Mutes

310

10
In d iv id u a l B r a s s i n s t r u m e n t s

312

Hom 312
Trumpet 325
Comet 337
Other Members of the Trumpet Family 339
Trombone 340
Other Members of the Trombone Family 349
Tuba 349
Other Members of the Tuba Family 354
1 1

S c o rin g f o r B ra s s , and
B r a s s C o m b in e d w ith
S t r i n g s a n d W in d s 357

Early Uses of the Brass Choir 357
Doubling of Brass Instruments within the
Modem Orchestra 363
Homophonic Writing for the Brass Choir 364
Using the Brass Choir to Present the Melody 375
Contrapuntal Writing for the Brass Choir 392
Climactic Uses of the Brass Choir 413
Using the Brass Choir to Provide a Coloristic
Effect 424

12
T h e P e r c u s s io n e n s e m b le

431

Historical Uses of Percussion Instruments
within the Orchestra 431
Number and Distribution of Percussion
Players 433
Notation of Percussion Instruments 433
Mallets, Beaters, and Sticks 434
Categories of Percussion Instruments 435
Instruments of Definite Pitch 437
I d io p h o n e s ; M a l l e t I n s t r u m e n t s

Xylophone 437
Marimba 438
Vibraphone 439
Glockenspiel 440
Chimes 441
Crotales 442
Steel Drums 443

Co n ten ts

Slapstick or Whip 460
Log Drum and Slit Drum 460
Hammer 461

Id i o p h o n e s : S h a k e n o r S t r o k e d
In s tru m e n ts

Musical Saw 443
Flexatone 444
Crystal Glasses 444

vii

M e m b ra n o p h o n e s

Snare Drum 461
Tenor Drum 462
Field Drum 462
Bass Drum 463
Tom-Toms 463
Timbales 464
Bongos 464
Conga Drum 465
Tambourine 465
Quica; String Drum or Lion's Roar 466

M e m b ra n o p h o n e s

Timpani 445
Roto Toms 448
C h o rd o p h o n e s

Cimbalom 449
A e ro p h o n e s

Whistles 451
Instruments of Indefinite Pitch

452

Id io p h o n e s : M e t a l

Cymbals: Crash, Suspended, Hi-Hat, Sizzle,
Chinese, Finger 452
Triangle 454
Anvil 455
Cowbells 455
Tam-Tam and Other Gongs 456
Wind Chimes 456
Sleigh Bells 457
Bell Tree 457
Brake Drum 457
Thunder Sheet 457
Id io p h o n e s : W o o d e n

Wood Blocks 457
Temple Blocks 458
Claves 458
Castanets 458
Sand Block or Sandpaper Block 459
Maracas 459
Jawbone; Vibraslap 459
Guiro 460
Ratchet 460

A e ro p h o n e s

Sirens 466
Motor Homs 467
Wind Machine 467
13
KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS

468

Piano 468
Celesta 475
Harpsichord 478
Organ 480
Harmonium 483
14
S c o r in g f o r P e r c u s s i o n
w it h K e y b o a r d A l o n e
o r in C o m b in a t io n 486

Percussion Layout in the Full Score 486
Percussion Section Setup 494
Uses of the Percussion Section 497

P A R T TWO. O R C H E S T R A T IO N

S c o rin g f o r O r c h e s tr a

547

The Unison-Octave Tutti 548
The Distribution of Foreground—
Middleground—Background Elements
within the Orchestra 558
Orchestrating a Melody or Primary
Gesture 599

Using the Orchestra to Create Special
Effects 601
16
t h e O r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t

611

The Concerto 611
Accompanying the Vocal Soloist, Ensemble, or
Chorus 639

viii

Con ten ts

17
T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

666

Transcribing from Keyboard or Small
Chamber Combinations to Orchestra 668
Transcribing from Band or Wind Ensemble
to Orchestra 715
Transcribing to Various Available
Instrumental Combinations 741
18
T he P re p a ra tio n
o f S c o re and p a r ts

The Orchestral Score Setup
The Reduced Score 762

757
757

The Condensed Score 764
Preparing Individual Parts 766
19
S c o rin g f o r B and
o r W ind E n s e m b l e

772

Scoring for Band 772
Band Versus Wind Ensemble 773
The Percussion Section within the Band or
Wind Ensemble 773
The Band and Wind Ensemble Score Setup 774
Condensed Scores 778
Transcribing from Orchestra to Band or Wind
Ensemble 782

A P P E N D IC E S
A

Q u ic k R e f e r e n c e G u i d e s

Ranges of the Most Frequently Used
Orchestral Instruments 786
Names of Instruments in Four Languages
and Their English Abbreviations 793
Frequently Used Orchestral Terms
in Four Languages 795

785

В

S e l e c t b ib lio g ra p h y

797

Orchestration 797
Individual Instrumental Technique 799
The History of the Orchestra and of Orchestral
Instruments 802
Band and Wind Ensemble Scoring, Film
Scoring, and Commercial Arranging 803
Computer and Electronic Music 804
A c k n o w le d g m e n ts
In d e x

807

815

In this book, the octave designations of pitches are represented by superscript numbers, such that
middle С equals C4. For example:
С three octaves below middle С to the В above: С1 - B1; middle С to the В above: С4 - B4;
С three octaves above middle С to the В above: С7- B7.

PREFACE

While I was working on the first edition of The Study of Orchestration, I was
asked to give a lecture to a convention of composers on the subject. I titled my
lecture "Where To, Now?" and brashly previewed what music of the 1980s and
1990s would be like. My prophecy, which I thought brilliant at the time, missed
the mark completely; my prognostications have come back to haunt me over
these past twenty-odd years.
In 1979,1 stated that music of the last quarter of the twentieth century would
be even more complex and ever more experimental than in the decades since
World War П. New methods of notation would be devised, new instruments
would be invented, and possibly even new concert spaces would be created to
accommodate the cataclysmic changes that I predicted would occur.
It is indeed an understatement to say that my soothsaying was dead wrong.
In fact, the music composed during the last two decades is distinguished by a
new simplicity—a new love affair with a romantic, quite user-friendly, and
sometimes even popular style. I am not implying that all composers everywhere
in the world now adhere to this formula; certainly many distinguished com­
posers are still perpetuating the more complex traditions of our century, but
generally the most-performed younger composers use a much less stringent
musical vocabulary to express their ideas.
A similar situation exists in the realm of orchestration. Although new nota­
tion and extended instrumental techniques were all the rage from the mid­
twentieth century through the middle 1970s, a more traditional approach to the
orchestra seems to have regained a foothold, despite all of the previous focus on
experimentation. A good case in point is the work of the Polish composer
Krzysztof Penderecki, who as one of the leaders of the postwar avant garde
forged a powerfully new orchestral sound. Penderecki's orchestral works since
the early 1970s can be characterized by their Romantic, almost Sibelius-like or­
chestral writing. This is not a critical statement but rather one of fact. Younger
composers, especially those in America, have profited greatly from experimen­
tation with unusual playing techniques and their own experience with elec­
tronic music, but their love of the traditional orchestra and its early twentiethcentury masters (Mahler, Schoenberg, Stravinsky, Bart6k, and others) has perhaps
influenced their orchestral expression even more. Where will these composers
ultimately be heading? Where will the generation after them end up? It's any­
body's guess.
Having had the opportunity to examine dozens of orchestral scores by suc­
cessful young composers several times a year, I find that their use of the orches­
tra is both imaginative and effective. It also demonstrates their thorough knowl­
edge of the traditional orchestral literature. These composers have indirectly
served as the inspiration behind The Study of Orchestration since its first edition;
the book's goal has been to help as many students as possible achieve the suc­
cesses that these young composers have achieved. The third edition has several

X

P R EFA C E

new features designed to make this happen. Although most composition stu­
dents may have a constantly expanding knowledge of the orchestral repertory,
the average music student attending a school of higher learning may not. I have
learned, in my own teaching as well as from the remarks of colleagues, that a
tremendous gap exists between what the average music student should know
about even the most traditional orchestral repertoire and what they actually do.
As a partied remedy I have added many more works to the lists of additional
pieces for study at the ends of chapters (in most cases whole movements or en­
tire works). I would like to advise instructors to give listening assignments over
and above the regular orchestration projects that are found in the workbook.
Only by listening and getting to know the repertory will a student sharpen his
or her ear for orchestral sounds, and I believe that this listening component will
help students expand their entire musical horizon.
This new edition retains many standard excerpts from the orchestral litera­
ture, as well as copious examples from twentieth-century orchestral literature.
The new edition dtes many more references than the past two did to newer or­
chestral works, from which the experienced orchestrator will be able to glean
valuable information.
As always, I have profited greatly from the suggestions and criticisms of
many colleagues and other individuals. The chapters on the trombone, the harp,
and the orchestral percussion section have been expanded, and the discussions
of several string techniques, such as harmonics, which have presented problems
for many students, have been clarified. In the workbook quite a few new ex­
cerpts have been added and a great many substitutions have been made in
works to be orchestrated.
One of the most significant changes is the accompanying CD package, which
not only contains recordings of all the music excerpts found in the book but also
a CD-ROM program that enables students to access professional-quality videos
of each instrument and instrumental technique used in the standard orchestra.
The CD-ROM also allows students to test themselves on a number of topics and
helps them make more informed "orchestrational" choices by working through
several different reorchestrations of well-known orchestral works by Verdi,
Tchaikovsky, Debussy, and Mahler. The reorchestration modules challenge stu­
dents to apply their growing knowledge and individual taste to larger issues of
orchestration. I hope that this kind of exercise will produce lively class discus­
sions and encourage instructors and students to develop similar types of exer­
cises. The CD-ROM also contains composer biographies that focus on their par­
ticular methods of orchestration and that draw examples from their important
orchestral works.
Since music is the art of sound, every topic connected with its study has to
do with training the ear. To me, the technique of orchestration entails the abili­
ties to hear instrumental sounds individually and collectively and to transfer
these sounds into written notation as accurately and dearly as possible. The two
distinct parts of this book go a long way toward accomplishing this goal.
Part One, Instrumentation, may be thought of as the rudiments of orchestra­
tion. The purpose of each chapter in Part One is to enable the student to hear the
sound quality of each instrument and the changes in that quality throughout its
range; to learn the practical ranges of each instrument; and to get to know the
most effective uses of each instrument within orchestral settings of each musical
era. To that end I have induded many solo instrumental excerpts to expose stu­

P refa ce

dents to the sound of each individual instrument. Some of these solo passages
are later shown in their orchestral context (I have provided cross-references
within the text to these orchestral passages); others are simply used to demon­
strate the range or timbres of the individual instrument. I would like to suggest,
however, that whenever possible the instructor play a recording of the solo pas­
sage in its orchestral context.
Part One is organized around the four sections of the orchestra, with chap­
ters that focus on the individual instruments within a particular section preced­
ing discussions of orchestrating for the entire section. I would like to encourage
instructors to use the chapters on scoring for woodwinds, brass, and percussion
to introduce students to writing for wind ensemble, which in essence is simply
writing for winds, brass, and percussion without strings, since the basic tech­
niques of the instruments used by both orchestra and band are essentially the
same.
As in the previous two editions, Part Two deals with the orchestra as a
whole. Individual chapters, or sections within chapters, focus on the techniques
of transcribing piano, chamber, band, and other music for orchestra; the orches­
tra as accompanist; and the preparation of score and parts. Since many com­
posers today prepare their scores on the computer, I have added a short discus­
sion about using computer programs such as Finale, Score, and Sibelius and
some of the hazards they present.
In recognition of the likelihood that many musicians using this book will be
teaching in public schools, I have given special emphasis to transcribing orches­
tral works for the odd combinations that may be found in school or classroom
situations. In addition, quite a few instructors will be happy to find a new
Chapter 19, which offers some basics on scoring for band. However, I have re­
sisted the impulse to address the many different problems faced by the "bandstrator."* At the end of Chapter 19 I have supplied a suggested listening list of
twenty-five works for wind ensemble, which may help the student learn how to
score for that ensemble.
The appendices offer a quick reference chart of the ranges and transposi­
tions of each instrument discussed in the book, as well as an up-to-date anno­
tated bibliography of books on orchestration, notation, individual instruments,
and electronic music. Concerning ranges, I have differentiated between the full
(professional) ranges and those most often used by nonprofessionals, students,
or amateurs. Appendix A also includes the names of orchestral instruments in
four languages, their English abbreviations, and some frequently used orches­
tral terms in tabular format.
Even though I have omitted an extended discussion of electronic instru­
ments in the body of the book rather than give superficial generalizations, I be­
lieve these instruments are of tremendous importance in today's sonic land­
scape. Therefore, in Appendix В I have provided a list of important books and
periodicals in which these instruments are discussed. I recommend these books
especially to the reader interested in popular and rock music.
The revised workbook, the set of six enhanced CDs, and a teacher's manual,
with answers to the workbook questions, complete the "orchestration package."
T h e re are several books specifically geared toward "bandstration"; the best among them,
in my opinion, is that by Joseph Wagner, entitled Band Scoring: A Comprehensive Manual
(McGraw-Hill, 1960).

xi

xii

Prefa ce

The workbook provides a range of exercises that test students' newly ac­
quired skills. To the many Listen and Score exercises that were a part of the sec­
ond edition, six new ones have been added that reflect more basic orchestrational techniques. These Listen and Score excerpts should expand students'
grasp of the orchestral medium in very specific ways. In addition, there are now
exercises where a given full score is to be reduced.
с

a

n

"It takes a village" to correct and update books like The Study of Orchestration. I
am grateful to many people. First of all, let me thank my former colleagues at
the Eastman School of Music for their valuable input. John Marcellus, for his ad­
vice on "all things trombone"; Christopher Rouse, for his many suggestions
concerning the percussion section; Augusta Read Thomas, for her corrections
throughout the book; Allan Schindler, for his input about electronic and com­
puter music; and Donald Hunsberger, for his efforts concerning the recording of
the new excerpts for the enhanced CDs that accompany this volume. Kathleen
Bride, besides playing the new examples for the CD so beautifully, also con­
tributed several corrections and additions that have been incorporated into the
harp chapter. I am also indebted to Jane Gottlieb, the librarian of the Juilliard
School of Music, for her assistance in tracking down rather obscure publication
information.
Further, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the faculty, students,
and administration of the Eastman School of Music for their cooperation and
encouragement to me at every step in the creation of the new enhanced CD set
Also, the readers assembled by W. W. Norton—David Sills (Ball State
University), Robert Gibson (University of Maryland, College Park), Mark
DeVoto (Tufts University), Michael Matthews (University of Manitoba), and
Randall Shinn (Arizona State University)—were very insightful, and I thank
each of them for their many suggestions, all of which I considered very seri­
ously and to a large extent incorporated into the new edition.
Finally, some very special kudos. First, I would like to express my apprecia­
tion to the Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation for their generous support,
which enabled us to produce the enhanced CD set that accompanies this
edition.
Thanks also to Thomas Frost and the recording staff of the Eastman School
of Music, headed by David Dusman, and to James Van Demark and the mem­
bers of his company, Square Peg Entertainment, who together produced an ex­
traordinary set of videos and audio recordings.
Being rather ignorant of the ways of computers, I owe a great deal of grati­
tude to one of my former students, Dr. Peter Hesterman, for his expertise and
imagination in creating the CD-ROM. His vision has made this new component
a most effective teaching tool.
This entire project could not have been accomplished without the tremen­
dous editorial skills and long-suffering patience of my editor at W. W. Norton,
Suzanne La Plante. Her efforts on behalf of this volume, as well as of the elec­
tronic supplements, have been superb. She has guided the project from its in­
ception and has been of constant support and assistance to me in every step of
this endeavor. I cannot thank Suzanne enough for her commitment and her con­
tinuous desire to fashion a product of excellence.

PA R T O N E

IN S T R U M E N T A T IO N

1

T h e O r c h e s t r a —Y e s t e r d a y
and Today

Aristotle, in his famous discourse "On Music/' said: 'It is difficult, if not impos­
sible, for those who do not perform to be good judges of the performance of oth­
ers." He was referring to solo performance on instruments or singing; but the
same may be said of those who must judge the worth, competence, and effec­
tiveness of a piece of orchestral music. Hands-on experience in a specific area of
the musical arts makes a composer, conductor, teacher, performer, or student a
better practitioner in that particular aspect of music. Since so many musicians
deal with the great instrument we call the orchestra, it is most important that
the study of orchestration and instrumentation become a basic part of every
musician's education.
The orchestra is certainly one of the noblest creations of Western civilization.
The study of its intricacies will illumine many important areas of music. After
all, timbre and texture clarify the form as well as the content of a host of compo­
sitions. Further, specific orchestral colors and even the spacing of chords in the
orchestral fabric give special "personality" to the music of composers from the
Classical period to our own time. In an informative book called The History of
Orchestration, Adam Сarse concludes with this judgment:
Orchestration has been many things to many composers. It has been a servant of
the great, a support to the mediocre, and a cloak for the feeble. Its past lives
enshrined in the works of the great dead, its present pants after the exertion of
recent progress, and its future lies as completely hidden as it lay at the end of
the sixteenth century.*
Mastering the technique of orchestration leads one to a deeper understand­
ing of the sensitivity with which the great masters of composition have handled
the symphony orchestra and how each made this remarkable instrument serve
his or her musical ideas in the clearest and most vivid ways.
The art of orchestration is of necessity a highly personal one. The orchestral
sound of Wagner, for instance, is vastly different from that of Brahms, even
though these two composers lived at the same time. In this regard, orchestration
is similar to harmony, melody, or any other parameter of music. It is, therefore,
imperative that one acquire the basic skills of the art in order to make it personal
at a later time. The ear will be the deciding factor in the choice of instruments as
well as in combinations of instruments. For that reason we shall immediately
*Adam Carse, History of Orchestration (New York: Dover, 1964), p. 337.

3

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

concentrate on developing the ear and trying to make it capable of listening and
distinguishing colors.
The goal of this book is to acquaint the reader with the distinctive, particular
sound each instrument makes alone and in combination with other instruments,
as well as with the techniques used to produce these sounds. Acquiring this
knowledge will enable a composer to write down a particular tone color in score
for realization in performance when it is heard in the inner ear (or mind). Walter
Piston put it succinctly: "You've got to hear what you put on that page." Let us
call this "hearing mentally.''
Compared with the development of other areas in the discipline of music,
orchestration, as we know it, is a latecomer. It is very true that instruments have
been used since the dawn of history, but they were employed for the most part
to accompany voices or improvise during festive occasions. During the Middle
Ages and the Renaissance, the composer never specified the exact instruments
that were to perform the various parts, but rather designated a "soprano, alto,
tenor, or bass" instrument. In the preface to his opera Combattimento (1624)
Monteverdi wrote: "A uniform basic mood throughout a piece postulates an un­
changing combination of instruments all the way through." Even as late as 1740,
Leopold Mozart wrote in the preface to one of his Seremtas that "if the alto
trombone player is inadequate, a violinist should be asked to perform the trom­
bone part on the viola." But by the middle of the eighteenth century 'this was an
anomaly rather than the norm.
From as early as 1600, the orchestra as we know it begem its rather slow de­
velopment. We learn from such writers as Francis Bacon that in the middle of
the seventeenth century in England, there were still two kinds of consorts: musica pacta, the broken or heterogeneous consort, and musica sociata, the whole or
homogeneous consort. However, orchestras were springing up in many of the
courts of Italy, France, and Germany. We may divide the history of the orches­
tra into two broad periods: from the beginnings of the orchestra to the death of
Bach and Handel around 1750; and from the Mannheim School, Haydn, and
Mozart to the present.
During the first period, there was an emphasis on the stabilization of the en­
tire orchestra. The string choir was the first to be exploited because the construc­
tion of the four constituent instruments—violin, viola, cello, and double
bass—was perfected by the end of the seventeenth century. The institution of
public concerts in the eighteenth century was the catalyst for the gradual cre­
ation of an orchestra with multiple strings. The media of opera and ballet also
considerably aided the advancement of orchestral technique as well as the con­
cern for very specific colors. Lully, as early as 1686, used a string orchestra plus
flutes (or recorders), oboes, bassoons, horns, trumpets, and timpani. Again, one
must say that this orchestra was as yet not universally accepted. Throughout his
lifetime, Bach experimented with all kinds of orchestral combinations, espe­
cially as accompaniment for his cantatas. In his case, as was so often true for
composers of that period, availability of performers largely dictated the consti­
tution of his orchestra. By the time of Haydn and Mozart, stabilization had al­
most been achieved, and it was accepted that an orchestra, as distinct from a
large chamber group, was made up of three different choirs: the strings (first vi­
olins, second violins, violas, cellos, and double basses), the woodwinds (two
flutes, two oboes, two clarinets, and two bassoons), and the brass (two horns,
two trumpets, and timpani). As yet the standard symphony orchestra had no

THE ORCHESTRA—YESTERDAY AND TODAY 5

separate percussion section, but it did exist in the opera orchestra. Such instru­
ments as snare drum, bass drum, triangle, and cymbals were commonly found
in opera scores. The timpani, however, were classified with the brass in the
Classical orchestra. The reason for this was utilitarian, since the timpani invari­
ably played together with the trumpets. Seldom are there cases during this time
when the two are used separately. There has always been confusion as to why
the trumpets are placed below the homs, even in the most modem orchestral
scores, even though the trumpets usually play in a higher range than the homs.
The reason is historical: homs were used in the orchestra earlier than trumpets,
and the trumpets were placed on the score near the timpani since their music
was usually coupled.
From the Classical period on, the orchestra grew and expanded rapidly.
First, auxiliary instruments such as piccolo, English hom, bass clarinet, and
contrabassoon were added to increase the range of the wind choir, and other
instruments were brought into the symphony orchestra from the opera or­
chestra (trombones, harps, and the larger percussion battery). Berlioz assem­
bled huge orchestras for specific occasions in which the wind, brass, and
percussion sections were more than doubled and the string choir was greatly
enlarged. By the time of Mahler and Stravinsky, the large orchestra as we
know it today was an accepted norm. The strings, instead of 6, 6, 4,4, 2, were
18, 16, 14, 12, 10 (the numbers, of course, stand for the number of players in
each of the five string sections). Nor was it uncommon to employ six flutes,
five oboes, six clarinets, four bassoons, eight homs, four trumpets, four trom­
bones, two tubas, two harps, piano, and a host of percussion instruments re­
quiring four to five players.
Not only has the size of the orchestra increased, but its use has grown more
sophisticated. When it does not matter what instrument plays a certain part, the
composer relinquishes responsibility for the orchestration; and, at least from
today's perspective, he or she is not much concerned with timbral problems.
However, as the orchestra became a huge apparatus and every note, chord, tim­
bre, and nuance became an integral part of the composition, it was necessary to
codify the art of orchestration so that it could be taught. Some of the great orchestrators of the nineteenth century felt compelled to set down their ideas and
insights. Two of the outstanding orchestration texts of the nineteenth century
are those by Berlioz (revised by Richard Strauss) and by Rimsky-Korsakov. Both
treatises are concerned with the techniques of each instrument separately and
the various combinations that proved successful in the authors' own works.
Rimsky-Korsakov used only his own works to illustrate each point; he was,
after all, a great orchestrator and a daring experimenter who provided us with
insights and explanations that would not have been possible had he used works
by other composers.
It has been said that Maurice Ravel was asked by his publisher to write a
book on orchestration. He respectfully declined but was reported to have told
his friends that if he were to write such a volume it would include everything in
his own orchestral music that, in his view, was an orchestral miscalculation.
Since we have come to consider Ravel one of the true giants of orchestration,
how very interesting it would have been to have such a book, for one cannot
think of Ravel's orchestral writing as weak in any way. In this connection, it is
important to note that tastes in orchestration change and some of the problems
attendant on these changes will be discussed in Chapters 15, 16, and 17. Such

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

great musicians of the past as Wagner, Mahler, Weingartner, Mengelberg,
Toscanini, and Beecham took it on themselves to "improve" the orchestrations
of Beethoven and Schumann symphonies to suit the larger orchestras and the
fashion in orchestral sonorities of the late nineteenth and early twentieth cen­
turies. Mozart reorchestrated Handel's Messiah, adding clarinet and trombones
to the original in order to satisfy the ears of la te-eighteenth-century audiences.
The art of orchestration today is a sophisticated and intricate one. It is also
highly individual, depending greatly on the taste and even the prejudice of the
composer or orchestrator. Realizing this, one should master the techniques of
writing for each instrument and listen carefully to the various combinations. A
student can leam much from reducing a full score to its bare essentials so that it
may be performed on the piano, or from "blowing up" a score from a piano
part. This kind of activity has been common practice for well over one hundred
years and offers invaluable lessons about clarity and coloration in the orchestra.
Such fabulous orchestrators as Ravel, Debussy, and Stravinsky often composed
their most advanced orchestral scores at the piano and then orchestrated them,
whereas Webern and Berg zealously made piano arrangements of huge orches­
tral scores by Schoenberg and Mahler in order to make them easier to study. In
our time, the composer or orchestrator is often called on to reorchestrate certain
works for our large music-education establishment. During the course of this
book, all these and other practical possibilities will be addressed.
Throughout this book, the instruments most commonly used in the modem
symphony orchestra receive the broadest exposure. On the other hand, with the
advent of so many Baroque ensembles and heterogeneous large chamber
groups, it was deemed important to include a few instruments peculiar to such
ensembles and to describe basic techniques and concepts associated with them.
Appendix В gives some bibliographic references for further information about
the instruments that are discussed less thoroughly.

2
BO W ED S TR IN G IN S TR U M E N TS

T h e violi n F amily

Violin

Viola

Cello

Double bass

The modem symphony orchestra is usually divided into four sections or choirs:
strings, woodwinds, brass, and percussion. The bowed string choir—violins, vi­
olas, cellos, and double basses, technically called chordophones*—was the first to
be developed fully and exploited by composers. This preferential treatment may
be explained on two counts: the strings, of all the choirs, reached their present
state of technical perfection in construction by 1700; and the "violin family," as
it is sometimes called, has the greatest number of properties in common.
Some other reasons composers have given the violin family priority are:
1. its enormous range, encompassing seven octaves between the double basses
and the violins;
2. the homogeneous tone color throughout its entire range, with only slight
variations in the different registers;
3. its wide dynamic range, from an almost inaudible pianissimo to a most
sonorous fortissimo;
4. the richness of tone quality, which produces a particular warmth that lends
itself to the performance of espressivo passages;
5. its versatility in producing different kinds of sound (bowed, plucked, struck,
and so on) and performing rapid passages, slow sustained melodies, skips,
"The term for musical instruments that produce sound by means of strings attached be­
tween fixed points. (See also p. 449.)

7

8

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

trills, double stops, and chordal configurations, as well as special (even ex­
tramusical) effects;
6. its ability to sound continuously, unhampered by the player's need to
breathe (as distinct from wind instruments).
The string section of a full symphony orchestra consists of the following
number of players, with two players sharing each stand:
first violins
second violins
violas
cellos
double basses

16 to 18 players
14 to 16 players
10 to 12 players
10 to 12 players
8 to 10 players

8 or 9 stands
7 or 8 stands
5 or 6 stands
5 or 6 stands
4 or 5 stands

C o n s t r u c t io n

t a ilp ie c e

Like a true family, all bowed string instruments have many things in common:
the same construction and acoustical properties, similar playing techniques, and
even special problems and peculiarities. Discussing these shared characteristics
before considering each instrument separately will help clarify the familial sta­
tus of each instrument, and help illuminate the slight variations and modifica­
tions that we will see each member exhibit when the individual instruments are
discussed in turn. Since we shall use certain terms to describe the structure of
string instruments throughout this book, this chapter introduces the appropri­
ate nomenclature.
Except for the proportions, which will be given as each instrument is consid­
ered separately, the construction of all the instruments, as well as the names of
the different parts, is identical to that of the violin diagram drawn below.
Each instrument consists of two
■scroll
main parts: the body and the neck.
Both are made of wood. The top
pegs
surface of the body, called the belly,
the table, or the soundboard, and the
bottom, called the back, are both
curved. Together with the side­
■neck
walls, called the ribs, they form a
hollow box that acts as a resonator
and strengthens the vibrations of
the strings. The overall shape of the
body somewhat resembles the hu­
-f in gerboard
man form; it also appears to have a
waist. Inside the body is a sound
post, which transmits the vibrations
-bridge
of the strings. The neck consists of a
long, thin, shaped piece of wood,
called the fingerboard. At its upper
end is a pegbox, which holds the
timing pegs, and a small curved
section above the pegs, called the
V io lin
scroll. Over the fingerboard and

B o w e d s t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

belly are stretched four strings, or in the case of the double bass, sometimes five.
The strings, each wound around a tuning peg, pass thence over a small piece of
wood, called the nut, along the fingerboard, then over another piece of wood,
called the bridge; they are attached to a third piece of wood or plastic, called the
tailpiece. A bow rubbed across the string between the place where the finger­
board ends and the bridge is positioned makes the string vibrate, producing a
sound. The bridge, which supports the strings, also vibrates and its vibrations
pass to the belly and, to a lesser extent, the back. Cutting through the belly are
two sound holes, called F-holes because they resemble that letter in the alphabet.
They permit the belly of the instrument to vibrate freely, and also provide sound
exits from the body of the instrument.

TUNING
Three of the instruments of the violin family, the violin, viola, and cello, are
tuned in 5ths, while the fourth, the double bass, is timed in 4ths.
Here are the pitches of the open strings of the instruments. The term open
strings refers to the strings as they sound when they are not touched, or
stopped, by the fingers of the left hand.
e x a m p le
G

2-1. Tuning of the Four Violin Strings
D

A

E

XT

e x a m pl e

с

2-2 . Tuning of the Four Viola Strings

G

D

A

ТУ

e x a m p le

с

e x a m pl e

E

2 - 3 . Timing of the Four Cello Strings
G

D

A

2 - 4 . Tuning of the Four Double Bass Strings
A

D

G

A five-stringed double bass has a low С string added by means of a mechanical
extension. The standard tuning of a five-stringed bass is:
ex a m ple

С

2-5. Tuning of the Five-Stringed Double Bass
E

A

D

G

The double bass is the only transposing instrument of the violin family: it
sounds one octave lower than written.

10

T h e s t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

FINGERING

CD-ROM
C D -I
FINGERING/
SH IFTIN G

In order to produce pitches higher than that of an open string, the player
presses the left-hand fingers firmly against the fingerboard, thus shortening the
vibrating length of the string and consequently raising the pitch. The string it­
self vibrates only between the bridge and the nut. The left hand therefore moves
from a position closest to the nut (first position) up the fingerboard toward the
place where the bow is drawn across the string (which is between the end of the
fingerboard and the bridge). As the hand moves up the fingerboard it shifts
from one position to another. The shifting is executed in the manner shown in
Example 2-6. Fingering is indicated above the staff: the number 0 denotes an
open string, 1 the first finger (the index finger of the left hand), 2 the second fin­
ger (the middle finger of the left hand), and so forth.
e x a m p l e 2 -6 . First, Second, and Third Positions for the Violin and Viola
First position

0

1

2

Here is the fingering for the five basic positions of the violin and the viola, as
shown on the A string:
T h e F iv e B a s ic P o s it io n s o f t h e V io l i n

First
Position
A String*
1st finger
2nd finger
3rd finger
4th finger

>
’
•

В
С
D
E

Second
Position
A String
1st
2nd
3rd
4th

>
''
1■
■

and

V io l a

Fourth
Position
A String

Third
Position
A String
С
D
E
F

1st
2nd
3rd
4th

’
''
'■
■■

D
E
F
G

1st
2nd
3rd
4th

'
1
•
’

Fifth
Position
A String

E
F
G
A

1st
2nd
3rd
4th

■■
■

F
G
A
В

The principle of fingering is the same on all the bowed string instruments,
but certain details are quite different, particularly for the cello and the double
bass; therefore, we will discuss fingering at greater length in the special sections
devoted to each instrument in Chapter 3.

*For the complete range of possible pitches produced in the first position on the violin,
refer to the chart on p. 52; for the viola, the chart on p. 66; for the cello, p. 77; and for the double
bass, p. 85.

B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

DOUBLE, TRIPLE, AND QUADRUPLE STOPS
Two or more notes on adjacent strings played simultaneously are called multiple
stops. When only two notes are played together, a double stop results. There are
two kinds of double stops:
1. one or both of the pitches are played on an open string;
2. both pitches are played on stopped strings.
On all string instruments it is possible to play two notes on adjacent strings at
the same time by fingering the two pitches and then drawing the bow across
both strings.
Chords of three or four pitches, if they occur on adjacent strings, are also pos­
sible; these are called triple stops and quadruple stops. For triple stops, greater bow
pressure has to be exerted on the middle string of the three that are played, so
that all pitches can sound at the same time. For this reason, the simultaneous at­
tack of three notes can only be accomplished at a relatively loud dynamic level (/
or tnf). When piano or pianissimo triple stops are desired, the performer usually
has to arpeggiate them slightly. For quadruple stops, the bow is only able to sus­
tain properly two pitches at a time. Therefore, all quadruple stops must be
arpeggiated. (The bow used in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries was
more curved than it is today, and it was possible to sustain four-note chords
more readily. The wood in the middle of the bow curved outward, away from
the strings, unlike the wood on the modem bow, which curves slightly inward,
toward the strings.) The most successful triple and quadruple stops contain one
or two notes played on open strings, since these have a greater sustaining power.
Here are some examples of simple double, triple, and quadruple stops for
each of the four instruments, along with a few examples that are impossible to
perform since both pitches would have to be played on the same string. More
complete charts for the violin, viola, and cello will be found in Chapter 3.
E X A M P L E 2 -7 . Violin
Not possible

E X A M P L E 2 -8 . Viola
Not possible

E X A M P L E 2 -9 . Cello
Not possible

e x a m p le 2-1 o. Double bass: Only double stops that include an open string are

practical.

C D -R O M
C D -I
M U L T IP L E S T O P S

11

12

T h e S tu d y

o f

o r c h e s tr a tio n

D iv id e d S t r i n g s
Divisi (It.); Divises (Fr.); Geteilt (G e r .)
Since there is more than one player for each string part in a symphony orches­
tra, double stops are usually divided between the two players on the same
stand. The player sitting on the right side of the stand (the "outside") performs
the upper notes, while the one sitting on the left side (the "inside") plays the
lower notes. To signal this division, the part is marked divisi, or its abbreviation,
div. If the word divisi does not appear in the parts, the player would be correct in
performing the chord as a double stop. Sometimes the indication non div. ap­
pears to ensure that each player will perform double stops. When divisi is no
longer called for, the word unisoni appears in the part.
e x a m p l e 2 -11.

Debussy, Nocturnes, "Nuages," m m . 7-15 (strings only)

Modere

CD -1/TR. 1

Timp.

Vln.1

Vln.2

Via.

Vic.

D.B.

B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

When triple or quadruple stops are to be divided, it is helpful to specify how
this is to be done.
e x a m p l e 2 - 1 2 . Dividing Triple and Quadruple Stops
div.

non div.

If the composer wants the triple stops to be performed by three different
players, the parts should be marked div. я 3, or in case of quadruple stops,
div. a 4. If the division is to occur by stand—that is, first stand play the top note,
second stand, the next lower note, and so on—it is best to write out three or four
different lines in the part and give the direction "Divide by stand." The Italian
for "by stand" is da leggii; French, par pupitres; German, Pultweise (Pult.).
In the following example, the composer not only has indicated the division
by stand to the left of the score, but also has specified divisi (geteilt) instructions
for each stand within the body of the score.

14

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRA TIO N

C D -I/ m . 2

e x a m p le 2 -1 3 . R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, at [27]

In a passage where a composer wants only half the section to play, the part
should be marked "half" (in Italian, la meta; French, la moitie; German, die Halfte).
The inside players (those sitting on the left-hand side of the stand) will then re­
main silent during such a passage. When all are to play again, the word "all" (or
tutti [It.], tous [Fr.], alle [Ger.]) must appear in the score.

V ib r a t o
Most string performers will use vibrato to enhance the beauty of a tone that is
sustained for any length of time. Vibrato is accomplished by pressing the finger
firmly on the string at the desired pitch while quickly rocking it back and forth
on the string. Vibrato also increases the intensity of the pitch without distorting
the essential frequency. A composer or orchestrator may ask for non vibrato, or
senza (without) vibrato, if a white, pale sound is desired. For obvious reasons an
open string cannot have a fingered vibrato, but it can be made to sound as if it
were vibrating in either of two ways: by fingering (oscillating) the note one oc­
tave higher on the next higher string to set up sympathetic vibrations (which is
obviously not possible when the note in question is played on the highest
string); or by vibrating the same pitch on the next lower string. The first tech­
nique can only be produced on the lower three strings, the second only on the
upper three strings.

B o w e d S t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

G lis s a n d o and P o rta m e n to
Glissando

C D -R O M

C D-I
GLISSANDO

This is another technique common to all string instruments. It is accomplished
by sliding one finger on one string from one pitch to another. It is usually indi­
cated by a line connecting two noteheads with or without the word glissando
igliss.) above the line. When it is done correctly, the glissando is executed in one
long Gegato) bow stroke, and all the pitches will sound, or at least be touched,
between the first and last notes. It is possible to slide upward as well as down­
ward on a string.
Here are two famous examples of the use of glissando in an orchestral
passage:
e x a m p l e 2 - 1 4 . Ravel, La Valse, at [30l

CD-I/TR. 3
INDEX 1 / 0 :0 0

Mouvement de valse viennoise

espressif
e x a m p l e г -is. Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta, second
movement, 1 m. before |170|

CD-I/TR. 3
INDEX 2 / 0 :1 3

Vln. 1

*to be played on the third, the D, string.

Portamento
In many scores the indication port, (for portamento) occurs where gliss. would
normally be used to indicate a conscious slide from one pitch to another.
Portamento, however, constitutes a more natural, expressive method of connect­
ing melody notes that are a great distance apart, and this effect is rarely indi­
cated in the score. When port, is found in the score it signifies to the performer to
create a minimal slide between the two pitches, whereas gliss. usually directs
the player to execute the slide with a full volume of sound.

Glissando on More Than One String
If a glissando is to be performed over more than one string, it cannot be a "true"
glissando, for the sliding motion must be broken as soon as the open string is
reached and then continued on the next string until the desired pitch is attained.
e x a m pl e

2-16 . Mahler, Symphony No. 10, first movement, mm. 151-152
Tempo adagio

151

—1

CD-I/TR. 4

15

16

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Fingered Glissando
One other kind of glissando, called "fingered glissando," is found most often in
solo literature or in string solos within an orchestral work. It is sometimes called
the "written-out glissando," because every pitch is notated and is meant to be
performed as written, as in Example 2-17. When played by the full string sec­
tion, passages such as this will sound much more like a blurred glissando.
exam ple

CD-1ATR. 5

2 - 1 7 . Mahler, Symphony No. 7, second movement, 2 mm. before (92)

Allegro moderate

■

Д -П -Л w ith n n p firm o r

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Bartok, The Miraculous Mandarin, first part
Debussy, Iberia, part 2, at [38]
Mahler, Symphony No. 4, third movement, mm. 72-76 (glissando on more than
one string)
Ravel, La Valse, 3 mm. before [27] (glissando on more than one string)
J. Schwantner, Aftertones of Infinity, mm. 18-24
R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 205-209 (fingered glissando)

The Bow
The bow, with which violin-family instruments are played, derives its name
from its initial resemblance to the bow used in archery. We find even today
Arab and Far Eastern fiddles that are still played with curved bows, similar to
those used on European string instruments until the sixteenth century. For the
next three hundred years or so, various experiments in Europe brought the
shape of the bow closer to what we know today. Corelli, Vivaldi, and Tartini
still used bows that were slightiy curved outward, away from the hair. The
bow's final form—curved inward—was achieved in the bows of Francois Tourte
(1747-1835). These bows, as well as modern bows, have the following parts:
1. A long, tapering bow stick, which is curved slightly inward toward the hair.
It is usually made of Pernambuco wood.
2. A metal or ivory plate protecting the tip.
3. Horse-tail hair.
4. A metal ferrule (brace) at the frog that encircles the hairs and keeps them
evenly spread.
5. A metal screw with which the hair is tightened or loosened.
The tension of the hair is of the utmost importance. When the hair is tight­
ened, the elastic quality of the wood gives the entire bow a resilience that makes
it possible to execute any kind of stroke desired.
The specific measurements are proportional so that the bow is balanced to­
ward its middle, allowing for greater agility and control, as well as richer tone
quality. The bow is held firmly but flexibly between the four fingers and thumb

placement of right-hand fingers

b o w stick

screw

7

point (tip)

hairs

THE BOW

.
.
placement
of right
thumb

heel (frog)

in the right hand. There are other bow hand positions, especially for the cello
and the double bass, and we shall examine these in detail when we discuss
these two instruments in Chapter 3.

BOWING
Bowing refers to the act of drawing the bow across the string. The bow is nor­
mally drawn across the string midway between the end of the fingerboard and
the bridge. But to alter the sound of the instrument, the player may draw the
bow across the string at different places.
Two symbols must be remembered: n for down-bow, drawing the bow from
the frog toward* the tip; Vfor up-bow, drawing the bow from the tip toward the
frog.
A passage on any of the string instruments may be bowed effectively in a
variety of ways, and even the most experienced players often disagree on exact
bowings. Even today, concertmasters and conductors introduce new bowings
for well-established works. Bowing decisions are greatly influenced by the style
of the music, its character, and the tempo and dynamics at which a particular
work or passage is to be performed.
The composer or orchestrator should keep the following bowings in mind,
for these, at least, are constant.

Non legato

CD-RO M
C D -I
NON LEG A TO

In a passage with no notated slurs (non legato), each pitch is performed by
changing the direction of the bow, whether the passage is slow or fast.
exam ple

2- 18 . Elgar, Pomp and Circumstance No. 1, trio

Molto maestoso

Even though changes of bow direction occur for each of the notes above, a lis­
tener does not necessarily perceive these changes since skilled performers can play
the successive notes without an audible break between the up- and down-bows.
T h e performer does not always use the whole bow (all the way from the frog to the tip
and vice versa).

C D -1/T R . 6

18

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

CD-ROM
C D -I
LEG A TO

Legato
Whenever a passage is slurred, all notes within that slur are performed on one
bow, meaning that all are played in one bow direction. This is called legato play­
ing. (Legato means "bound together.")

C D -lrt-R . 7

e x a m p l e 2 - 1 9 . Schubert, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 1-8

Andante con moto

Some general observations concerning bowing must be stated:
1. A performer will naturally begin an anacrusis, or upbeat, with an up-bow (V)
unless the composer marks the upbeat with a down-bow sign (n).
2. A very common type of bowing instruction, two adjacent up-bows, occurs
on the second beat of the first measure of Example 2-19; these are necessary
to have a down-bow on the accented first beat of the next measure. The vio­
linist will play the quarter-note Et, then stop the bow movement ever so
briefly (the dash under the note indicates separation) before playing the
eighth-note Et while still in an up-bow motion.
3. When two vigorous articulations follow one another, two successive downbows are called for, as in Example 2-20. Here, a down-bow and an up-bow
are marked over the long note so that the following attack will be solid. The
bow is changed almost immediately to up-bow and is then ready to give a f f
attack on the triple stop.

B o w ed S tr in g In s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p le

2-20. Beethoven, Coriolanus Overture, mm. 276-286

When this passage is executed well, the bow change will hardly be noticed.
4. A performer can play louder and heavier toward the frog of the bow than
toward the tip, because the pressure from the right hand holding the bow is
much greater at the frog. Therefore, the most effective way to produce a
crescendo is with an up-bow, due to the right hand's ability to increase the
pressure on the bow toward the frog. Conversely, diminuendos are often
performed with a down-bow.
When bowing a passage, the composer should be aware of these tenden­
cies and, without overmarking the parts, should indicate bow direction only
where he or she wishes to counteract the normal habit of the players.
5. One should never mark long phrase slurs in string parts. Such slurs only
confuse the performer. The only slurs that should be used are those that des­
ignate the notes to be performed on one bow (legato).
There is a limit to how many notes can be played slurred on a single bow
stroke. This is largely determined by the tempo and the dynamics governing
a particular passage. In a fast but soft passage, a great many notes may be
slurred together.
ex а мple 2-21 . Mendelssohn, Symphony No. 4, first movement, mm. 378-388

I c d -i/ t r . э

A similar passage in the violas some measures later shows only six notes
on a bow, since the dynamic is forte.
e x a m p le

2-22 . Mendelssohn, Symphony No. 4, first movement, mm. 461-464

I c d - i /t r . i o

19

20

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

In slow passages, even if the dynamic is soft, special caution must be
taken not to overload the bow and thereby make the music physically im­
possible to perform. This is especially crucial for cellos and basses, whose
bows are a bit shorter than those of the violin and viola. For instance, the fol­
lowing passage is impossible to perform as the composer has marked, ad­
hering to both the crescendo marks and the slurs, unless, starting at the end
of measure 30, it is broken up into several bows.
exam ple

2 -23 . Liszt, Les Preludes, m m . 30-34

Examples 2-24 and 2-25 give two possible solutions. By dividing the section
and staggering the bowing among the players, one can produce a very long
and effective legato line, as Example 2-25 demonstrates.
exam ple

2 - 2 4 . Liszt, Les Preludes, m m . 30-34, possible bowing

C D -lrt-R . 1 1
INDEX 2 / 0 : 1 8

exam ple

2-2 S . Liszt, Les Preludes, m m . 30-34, possible bowing

8
O

C D -1 /TR. 1 1
INDEX 1

half the players

p iii cresc
half the players

Besides the single bow stroke (non legato) and the slur (legato), there are vari­
ous special types of bowings. Their execution depends greatly on the speed and
dynamics of the passage, as well as on the style and character of the music. For
many of these bowings, there is a great diversity of views about the meaning of
each term used to describe the bowing and the manner in which the bowing is
executed. Concerning the former, the terminology itself is not universally ac­
cepted, and quite often there are several names for a particular bowing in a

B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

given language. We have chosen what we consider to be the safest way to clas­
sify these bowings, by dividing them into:
1. bowings in which the bow stroke remains on the string;
2. bowings in which the bow is made to bounce off the string.

S p e c i a l O n -t h e - S t r i n g B o w i n g s
Detache (Fr.)
This basic non legato bowing is performed on all bowed string instruments by
changing the direction of the bow for each note (see also p. 17). Sometimes re­
ferred to as "separate bows," this stroke clearly articulates each pitch without
necessarily accenting any one, unless the passage is marked specifically to do
so. At a rapid tempo, the middle to upper third of the bow is usually used when
performing this stroke forte or mezzo forte; to produce an even louder sound,
the bowing is often executed at or near the frog.
exam ple

2 -26 . Tchaikovsky, Romeo and Juliet, mm. 141-143
Allegro giusto

C D -I/ T R . 1 2

142

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.

Di.

Sometimes the composer asks that a passage be played at the tip, which pro­
duces a much lighter, more delicate sound. The marking for this effect is: at the
point; a punta d'arco (It.); a la pointe (Fr.); an der Spitze (Ger.).
e x a m p l e 2 -27 . Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, fifth movement, mm. 8-13

8 Allegro con fuoco

C D -I/ T R . 1 3

21

22

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Conversely, composers ask for a passage to be played at the frog to take ad­
vantage of the heavy stroke that can be produced there. The marking for this ef­
fect is: at the frog; al lallone (It.); au talon'(Fr.); am Frosch (Ger.).
C D -l/ T R . 1 4

e x a m p l e 2 - 2 8 . Gluck, lphigenia in Aulis, Overture, m m . 19-29

Andante

20

A very heavy and vigorous effect is commonly achieved using a series of
down-bows. These can be played quite fast, with the bow raised between downbows, and will most often be performed at the frog.
C D -l/ T R . 1 5

exam ple

2 - 2 9 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6, third movement, mm. 108-112

B o w e d s t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

Loure ( F r .) ; Portato ( I t .)

CD -RO M
C D -I
LOU Ri

This essentially legato bowing is accomplished by slightly separating the notes
while the bow is being drawn across the string. It can produce a very expressive
effect and is used often in accompaniments. This bowing is indicated by dashes
under or over each of the noteheads, with slurs to designate the bow changes.
We have added bowings in Example 2-30 to show how the passage is to be
played. Loure is easily played with both up- and down-bows.
e x a m p le

2 - 30 . Handel, Messiah, "Comfort Ye," m m . 1-4 (tenor part not

C D - lfT R . 1 6

recorded on CD)

Staccato
The word staccato is derived from the Italian word staccare, meaning to detach or
separate. For bowed string instruments, it is best to use the term staccato to de­
scribe an on-the-string effect only. Staccato is indicated by placing a dot over or
under the notehead and is most effectively performed at moderate to slow tem­
pos for reasons that will be clarified below. Staccato passages can be played
loud or soft, and may be performed in one of two ways. Notice the difference in
the notation of these two modes of performance.
Separate Bow Staccato
This technique is effected by playing short, separate bow strokes (Examples
2-31 and 2-36).
e x a m p le

2 - 3 i . Separate Bow Staccato*

C D -1/T R. 1 7

Moderate

ff

CD-RO M
C D -I
S E P A R A T E BO W
STA C C A T O

PP

*Where no other attribution is given, the example is written by the author.

23

24

T H E ST U D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

Because staccato bowing separates or leaves a space between the notes, this pas­
sage could sound approximately:
exam ple

2 - 3 2 . Separate Bow Staccato as Played

Moderato
Vln.

JT
C D -RO M
C D -I
SLU R R E D
STA C C A T O

C D -1/ T R . 1 8

Slurred Staccato
This technique consists of the separation of a series of short notes on one
bow (Examples 2-33,2-34, and 2-35).
exam ple

2-33. Slurred Staccato

A staccato passage like the following is executed very much like loure—on
one bow—except that the notes are shorter (staccato) and, therefore, the space
between them is longer.
C D -1/T R . 1 9

e x am ple

2-34. Stravinsky, Symphony in Three Movements, second movement,

at ШИ
J>= 76
(at the point)

Two other variations of the staccato on one bow are very common.
1. The notation J. J J- 3 or J. JU J5 is usually performed:

П Ш
Notice that in the actual notation the staccato dot is placed under the short
note. If both notes were dotted, the long note would be measurably short­
ened in performance.
C D -1/T R . 2 0

exam ple

2-35. Hindemith, Symphonic Metamorphoses, fourth movement, at [a]

B o w e d S t r in g I n s t r u m e n t s

л

2. In order to make
sound crisp, light, and soft, the composer often does
not use slurs but rather indicates that the passage be played with separate
bows. In most cases these strokes would be executed at or toward the tip,
with the long note on an up-bow. To make this playing technique absolutely
clear to the performer, the composer may add dots above the sixteenth
notes. In the following example, we have added u p and down-bowing indi­
cations to show how the passage would be played.
e x a m p l e

2 - 3 6 . Weber, Euryanthe, Overture, 27 mm. after Tempo I: Assai

CD-l/TR. 2 1

moderate

Notice that all the tempos for the staccato passages have been moderate, for
a fast tempo will invariably be played off the string, with a bouncing bow. Such
passages are not called staccato, but rather spiccato or saltando—both terms that
will be discussed in the off-the-string section, below.

Ш A D D I T IO N A L P A S S A G E F O R S T U D Y
Stravinsky, Orpheus, "Pas de deux," at ll09|

Martele (Fr.); Martellato or Marcato (It.)

C D -R O M
C D -I
m artel£

The derivation of this term is from the verb "to hammer." In bowing, it indicates
a fast, well-articulated, heavy, separate stroke, resembling a sforzando. Martele
can be performed with any part of the bow: at the tip, in the middle, or toward
the frog. The bow does not leave the string, even though there is a stop between
the notes and each new stroke is initiated with a heavy accent. Sometimes, in­
stead of a simple dot, the composer places one of the following signs over a
note: I» or r or f .
e x a m pl e

2-37. Bruckner, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 52-58

C D -l / T R . 2 2

25

26

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

S P E C IA L O FF-T H E -S T R IN G BOW INGS
Spiccato (It.)
We have termed the three distinct ways of performing spiccato bowings. All de­
pend on the speed and the dynamic of a particular passage.

CO-ROM
C D -]
C O N S C IO U S
S P IC C A T O

C D -1/T R. 2 3

Conscious S piccato
In a slow or moderate tempo the player makes a conscious effort to make the
bow bounce. The pressure of the right hand is reduced, and the wrist drops the
middle of the bow on the string in a semicircular motion. The notation is similar
to that for staccato: dots are placed above or beneath the noteheads. The light­
ness and speed required in the passage determine whether the player uses a
conscious spiccato, as shown in Example 2-38, or a spontaneous spiccato, de­
scribed below.
exam ple

2 - 3 8 . Stravinsky, Dumbarton Oaks Concerto, first movement, at |

Tempo giusto (J' = 152)
Л

I

^

___■— •_

sim

.

Vln. 1

CD-ROM
C D -I
SPO N T A N E O U S
S R IC C A T O

C D -1/T R . 2 4

Spontaneous S piccato (Called S altan do)
At a fast tempo the player does not have to make a conscious effort to lift the
bow; rather, the short, quick up-down motion controlled by the wrist alone
makes the bow bounce spontaneously off the string with every stroke.
exam ple

2-39. Rachmaninoff, Symphonic Dances, first movement, at ГЩ

Vln.l

PP
CD-RO M
C D -I
SLU R RED
S P IC C A T O

C D -1/T R. 2 5

Slurred Spiccato
The following example shows a short series of spiccato notes grouped to­
gether in a single bow.
exam ple

2 -до. Mahler, Symphony No. 4, first movement, mm. 21-23

B o w e d s t r in g In s t r u m e n t s
I

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Beethoven, Symphony No. 1, second movement, mm. 154-156 (conscious
spiccato)
Rossini, William Tell, Overture, mm. 336-343 (spontaneous spiccato)

Jete (Fr.); Ricochet (Eng.)

C D-ROM

CD-I
jet£

The upper third of the bow is thrown on the string so that it will bounce, pro­
ducing from two to six or more rapid pitches. Jete is usually executed by a
downward motion of the bow. However, it can be played up-bow as well.
A word of caution: the more notes desired on one bow stroke, the more im­
practical jete bowing is. In an orchestral setting, we suggest that no more than
three bouncing notes at a time be used in this bowing, even though solo players
are perhaps capable of including many more well-articulated notes on a single
bow. Since the bows of the cello and double bass are slightly shorter, three, or at
most four, notes to a single je t i stroke are the limit of what can be played.
e x a m p l e 2 - 4 1 . Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, third movement, mm.

19-22 (violin solo only recorded)

a d d it io n a l

p a s s a g e s

fo r

s tu d y

Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, fifth movement, mm. 89-96
Stravinsky, The Firebird ballet, from m. 30 on

CD-1ATR. 2 6

27

28

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

CD -RO M
C D -I
A R P E G G IA N D O

Arpeggiando
A slightly different kind of spiccato is related to jete. This on-the-string bowing
may begin with a simple slurring of an arpeggio played over three or four
strings at a moderate tempo:

C D -l/ T R . 2 8
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exam ple

2 - 4 3 . Arpeggiando

But at a fast tempo, the bow will spontaneously bounce off the string because of
the motion of the right wrist, and an arpeggiando will occur naturally. This tech­
nique is used most often in solo string and chamber music literature, such as the
solo violin passage in Example 2-44, but is also an effective orchestral device (as
in the cadenza in the final movement of Rimsky-Korsakov's Sheherazade).
C D -1/T R . 2 8
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 2

exam p le

2 -44 . Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 328-336
Allegro molto

328

Vln. solo

T r il l s a n d O t h e r C o l o r is t ic
E f f e c t s U s in g t h e B o w
CD-RO M
CD-1
T R IL L

Trills
As on all instruments, the trill is extensively used on all strings. Trills are
executed by holding down the string of the pitch printed in the score with the
appropriate finger and playing and releasing the next higher note with the adja­
cent upper finger as rapidly as possible for the entire value of the printed note.
Performing a trill may involve the next higher or next lower note, as the com­
poser specifies. If the trill is played on an open string, it is not so effective, be­
cause the quality of an open string is quite different from that of a stopped
string. The performance of a trill by sixteen violins or ten violas creates an excit­
ingly blurred rhythmic sensation, very different from the sound made by a sin­
gle player on one instrument. The notation for the trill is
which is
placed above the note.

b o w e d S t r in g

e x a m p le

2 -4 5 . Hindemith, Mathis der Maler, third movement, at [

L

Vln. 1

C D -l / T R . 2 9

z u r iic k h a lte n

^

I

p ™ j

■lrr
VO

^

Via.
*

In s t r u m e n t s

T

m p\>

__

J-a
PP
■

Vic.
P

~i

_

P

-.

3

==—

pp~

>

f -

Tremolos
There are two kinds of tremolo.

Bowed Tremolo
A single pitch is repeated as often as possible during the length of the writ­
ten note by means of short, quick up- and down-bow strokes. In Example 2-46,
Verdi uses the tremolo to create a special, atmospheric effect.

CD-ROM
CD-1
BO W ED TR EM O LO

29

30

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRA TIO N

C D -1/T R . 3 0

e x a m p le 2 -4 6 . Verdi, Requiem, "Dies irae," mm. 46-51

Allegro agitato (j = 80)

Other uses of tremolo occur in works such as Bizet's Carmen, Berlioz's Symphotiie
fantastique, and Mendelssohn's G-minor piano concerto.

CD-ROM
C D -I
F IN G E R E D
TR E M O L O

C D - lfT R . 3 1

Fingered Tremolo
An interval of a second or larger is quickly repeated, somewhat like a trill.
The composer usually indicates a precise time value for each tremolo, although
the notes within the tremolo are not measured. The notes to be alternated
should be slurred together to insure the legato movement of the bow.
e x a m p l e

2 - 4 7 . Debussy, La Mer, first movement, at [8]

P — ■—

V — =--------~

P

— =

There are cases, however, where a fingered tremolo is bowed detache rather than
slurred; in those cases, of course, the slur is omitted.

W ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, first movement, at |~5]
Bizet, Carmen, Overture, at Andante moderato
Debussy, Nocturnes, "Sir&nes," at Щ
Dvofak, Cello Concerto, at 1, violas
Prokofiev, Scythian suite, at [40] (bowed tremolos in the violins and violas); at [43l
(fingered tremolos in the violas)
Stravinsky, The Firebird ballet, beginning of the Finale

Measured Effects That Are Similar to Tremolos
Passages that are notated with slashes through the notes are not tremolos, since
they are measured. This convenient shorthand notation should not be confused
with actual tremolos. Example 2-48 gives the actual rhythmic values that are
represented by the slashes; Example 2-49 shows this notation in an excerpt from
the literature.
exam ple

2 - 4 8 . Measured Effect, Not a Tremolo

e x a m p le

2-49. Wagner, Der fliegende Hollander, Overture, mm. 319-324

CD-l/TR. 3 2

Vln. 1

Vln.2

Vln.1

Vln.2

A second measured effect that is often deceivingly like a tremolo consists of
the undulation of two notes on adjacent strings, as shown in Example 2-50.
e x a m pl e

2 - 5 0 . B. Martinu, Symphony No. 1, first movement, one m.

CD-ROM
CD-I
UNDULATING
TREMOLO
CD-1/TR. 3 3

after [l4l
Moderate (J. = 54)

This technique may be performed slurred or detached.

Unusual Placements of the Bow
To vary the tone color, the bow may be drawn across the string at several differ­
ent points, such as on the fingerboard or on the bridge. To change the color in a
different fashion, the wood instead of the hair of the bow may be drawn over
the string.
Sul tasto ( I t .); Sur la touche (F r .); Am Griffbrett (G e r .)
In order to obtain a rather flutelike, soft, and hazy tone, the composer may
ask the performer to play with the bow on the fingerboard, as in the following
example.
e x a m p l e

2- 5i. Debussy, Iberia, part 2, at [40l
j' = 92

sur la touche (espressif et dmicement soutenu)

CD-ROM
CD-I

SU L TA STO

CD-1 /TR. 3 4

32

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

When the term flautando is used instead of sul tasto, the player should play near
but not on the fingerboard. The difference is really minimal, and many com­
posers make no distinction between sul tasto and flautando.

IS A D D I T I O N A L p a s s a g e f o r s t u d y
Debussy, Prelude a “L'apris-midi d'un faune," mm. 96-98
Sul p o n ticello (It.); A u ch ev a let (F r.); Am S teg (G er.)

C D -R O M

C D -I
SU L PO N TIC E LLO

This effect is produced by playing very near or right on the bridge instead of
between the fingerboard and the bridge, the regular space allotted for the bow
stroke. Since this produces upper partials of a tone that are not usually heard,
the pitch takes on an eerie, somewhat glassy timbre.
e x a m p le

CD -1/TR. 3 5

2- 52 . Puccini, Madama Butterfly, Act 1,3 m m . b e f o r e [38l

Allegro (J = 144)
Vln. l

Sul ponticello is often combined with bowed or fingered tremolo.
К

A D D ITIO N A L P ASSA G E FOR S TU D Y

R. Strauss, Sinfonia domestica (throughout)
CD-ROM
C D -I
COL L E G N O
TR A T T O

C ol legno (It .); A vec le b o is (F r .); M it H olz (G er.)
Two ways of playing with the wood of the bow are:
Col legno tratto. For this effect, the bow is turned over and the wooden stick
is dragged across the string. Since the wood of the bow is less resistant to the
string than the hair, the resulting sound is wispy and rather eerie. This tech­
nique is most useful for tremolo, as in Example 2-53, although sometimes it is
used in legato passages.

CD -1/TR. 3 6

exam ple

2-53. R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, at |l2l

Sehr langsam
col legno

CD-ROM
CD-1
COL L E G N O
BATTUTO

Col legno battuto. Here, the performer strikes the string with the wood of
the bow. This effect is more commonly used than col legno tratto, and it, too,
gives very little pitch definition, except in the extreme high and low registers,
depending on which of the strings are struck. Its percussive sound resembles a
very dry and short spiccato.

BOW ED STR IN G IN STR U M EN TS
e x a m p l e 2 - 5 4 . Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, fifth movement, mm. 444-455

CD -l/TR. 3 7

Allegro

frappez avec les bote de I'archet
Vln. 1

m m М Щ Ш
\
<ss>U---------I **
frappez areeles bois de I'ar het

m m

Ш11Ш

Vln.2
frappez a reс les bois da I'ar :het
Via.

...Л

-

SLm=-= et i m

^SLfCTf Г,

(col legm battuta)

<r
‘гг U
*— 7L
V

Vic. 1

h~f'
pizz.

Vic. 2

з ---- РГ
p
U,___ у

-ftf
*

r

D.B.

■л i f .

fr

t

V
P
pizz.

p Jf

Я

Vln.1

Vln.2

Via.

Vic. 1
Vic. 2

D.B.

Every time a special effect, such as col legno, col legno battuto, or sul ponticello
is used, you must insert the indication normale, naturale, or in modo ordinario in
the score at the point where the player should resume normal bowing. The
English word "natural" is sometimes substituted in American scores (for exam­
ple, see those of Copland, Schuman, and Persichetti).
В

A D D ITIO N A L PASSAGE FOR STU DY

Mahler, Symphony No. 1, third movement, mm. 135-137

C o l o r is t ic E f f e c t s

w it h o u t t h e

Bow

Pizzicato
Another mode of producing pitches on string instruments involves plucking the
strings. This playing technique, called pizzicato, is used quite frequently.

CD-RO M
C D -I
P IZ Z IC A T O

33

34

T H E ST U D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

The normal procedure of playing pizzicato is as follows. The violinist or vio­
list braces his or her thumb on the corner of the fingerboard and plucks the
string with the index finger. The cellist or bassist simply plucks the string with
his or her index finger, without anchoring the thumb. (Some violinists and vio­
lists have also adopted the nonanchored method.) During a pizzicato passage,
the bow is usually held by the other three fingers against the palm of the right
hand. However, if the entire piece or a lengthy section of it calls for pizzicato—
particularly if that section is preceded by rests and followed by enough time to
pick up the bow—the players may elect to put their bows in their laps or on the
stands to give them more control in executing the plucking.
The thickness of the string and the size of the instrument greatly affect the
volume of sound and the duration of the pitch that is plucked; double bass
strings, due to their greater thickness, have the greatest sustaining power of all
the strings of the violin family. The experienced player is aware of these effects
and can better control what is specified in the score.
Whenever pizzicato is desired, the entire word, or the abbreviation pizz.,
must appear in both the score and the parts. When the player is to resume play­
ing with the bow, the word arco must be printed. To execute pizzicato, the
player must take time to prepare to pluck and then to resume playing with the
bow. Although there are instances in both solo and orchestral literature when
no time is provided for either maneuver, these instances are rare, and this situ­
ation should be avoided if at all possible. The return to arco is more awkward
than going from bowing to plucking because the hand must be repositioned at
the nut of the bow for the normal playing position. It is much easier to change
from arco to pizzicato if the bowing has been prefigured such that the players
will have an up-bow stroke just before the pizzicato in order to arrive at the
frog. They then have enough leverage on the bow to make the switch more
quickly. If no time at all is allowed for the exchange of techniques, many play­
ers simply keep their bows in hand, extend the index finger, and pluck the
string.
C D -1/T R. 3 8

exam ple

2 -55 . Brahms, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 1-17

B o w e d S t r in g In s t r u m e n t s

tresc.

Left-Hand Pizzicato
This effect is much more prevalent in solo literature and chamber music than in
orchestral works. When a cross, +, appears above a note, the string is plucked
with one of the fingers of the left hand. Often, these are open strings, and the lit­
tle finger is used to pluck. At other times a whole series of pitches is to be
plucked with the left hand. In that case, the finger that is held down to produce
the highest pitch plucks the next highest pitch, and so forth, in the following
manner:
e x a m ple

2 -5 6 .

Left-Hand Pizzicato

spiccato pizz. pizz. pizz. pizz.

all pizz. notes with left hand

35

36

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Here, the В is played with the bow spiccato, then the fourth finger plucks the A;
the third finger, the G; the second finger, the F; the first finger, the open E
string.
cd-IAtr. 39

CD-RO M
C D -I
S N A P PIZZICATO

e x a m p l e 2 - 5 7 . Bartok, String Quartet No. 5, third movement, mm. 54-56

Snap or Fingernail Pizzicato
These two modes of playing pizzicato are twentieth-century innovations often
associated with the works of Bela Bartok. The sign for the snap pizzicato is A,
and it is performed by snapping the string against the fingerboard. The sign
must be placed above the note that is to be snapped. Fingernail pizzicato is indi­
cated by a /==4, and is executed by pulling the string with the fingernail. In some
scores, the term pizz. also appears with the special symbol, leaving no doubt as
to how this effect should be performed. In many cases, however, pizz. does not
appear, since the mode of playing is implicit in the snap or fingernail pizzicato
sign.

CD-1/TR. 4 0

exam ple

2 - 5 8 . Bartok, String Quartet No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 56-63

B o w e d S t r in g I n s t r u m e n t s

Pizzicato Chords
When no preference is expressed by the composer or orchestrator (such as the
term non arpegg.), the performer will strum a chord of three or four notes from
the bottom up, creating an arpeggiated effect that can be held to a minimum by
incisive, sudden finger strokes. In some cases, non arpegg. is specified. The pizzi­
cato chord is performed in the following manner:
e x a m p le

CD-ROM
C D -I
P IZ Z IC A T O

CHORDS

2 - 59 . Pizzicato Chords

Sometimes the composer wants the chord played from top to bottom, or in
the case of a repeated chord, alternating between bottom to top, top to bottom. In
these cases, a directional sign 1 i is placed in front of each chord. Occasionally,
the phrase quasi chitarra or a la chitarra is printed in the part and score, or arrows
are placed above the chords.
e x a m p le

2 - 60 . Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, fifth movement, mm. 5 - 9
accel............................... a l................ Presto (J = c. 134-146)

C D -lfT R. 4 1

37

38

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

A word of caution must be added concerning endurance and speed. A long,
fast pizzicato passage, played without rests, becomes very fatiguing for the per­
former. Some string players have perfected a technique of using the index and
middle fingers alternately to facilitate a lengthy pizzicato passage. Nevertheless,
occasional rests and alternation between first and second violins or violas and
cellos helps alleviate any physical discomforts of the players. Here is an exam­
ple of a successful lengthy pizzicato passage from the orchestral literature; no­
tice the periodic rests that are interspersed:
C D -1/T R. 4 2

e x a m p l e 2 - 6 1 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4, third movement, mm. 1-17

Allegro

For additional pizzicato examples, see the pizzicato movements of Britten, A

Simple Symphony; Foote, Suite for Strings in E; and Debussy, Iberia, part 3.
Pizzicato is similar to staccato and spiccato bowing in that the sound dies
away quickly. To indicate that a pizzicato note is to sound as long as possible,
composers sometimes write pitches with indeterminate slurs following them
and signal a long, "sustained" pizz. with the phrase "let vibrate," vib., or l.v.

B ow ed S t r in g In s tr u m e n ts
e x a m p le

2 - 62 . D. Diamond, Symphony No. 4 , second movement, m. 1

CD-lftR. 43

Adagio (J « 60)

Mu te s

CD-ROM
CD-I
MUTING

Con sordino (I t .); Avec sourdine (F r .); Mit Dampfet ( G e r .)
All string instruments can be muted. The designation most often used when a
mute is called for is con sordino ("with mute"). At that point in the score, the
player places a small plastic, wooden, or metal object on the bridge, thus ab­
sorbing some of the vibrations and obtaining a very soft and smooth sound.
When a mute is used, the tone quality is radically altered, and although most
muted passages are soft, it is possible to write forte or fortissimo portions of a
work for muted strings. The loud muted passage takes on a spedal quality of re­
straint and a sound that is more constricted, tenser. The composer or orchestra­
tor should listen carefully to both soft and loud muted passages to recognize
and appreciate this peculiar sound.
e x a m p l e

2 - 6 3 . Weber, Oberon, Overture, mm. 13-21

CD-1 /TR. 4 4

Adagio

con sordino w
- ---------13

. •ж

ITJP Ih

fгт _ F u k m

Г *'

con sordino

c »
pizz.

Rho.j

*

с

г

fg

arco

F V t j> v m

f ------ r ~

pizz.

-1—
J)

7

i

i

ё i -------- t -----------

m

i

-

arco

-

■

4

39

40

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Senza sordino ( I t . ) ; Sans sourdine ( F r . ) ; Ohne Dampfer ( G e r . )
A special word of caution must be stated in connection with the muting and unmuting of strings: enough time must be allowed so that players can put on or
take off the mutes quietly. Some players now use clips that easily slide to the
back of the bridge or that attach to it easily. But others still use the older mutes,
which need to be placed on the bridge, removed from it, and put away, all of
which takes considerably more time to accomplish.
At all times the player must be careful not to divert attention from the music
when mutes are put on or taken off. This is especially so in soft passages, as in
Example 2-63 above, where the violins must take off their mutes over the violas'
softly held notes.

SCO R D ATUR A
The open string of all string instruments can be altered in pitch to create certain
coloristic effects or for other practical considerations. This is called scordatura, an
Italian term meaning mistuning. Each string may be tightened or loosened to
produce a pitch other than that of the normal tuning. Scordatura tuning has
been used since the seventeenth century to facilitate the playing of difficult pas­
sages in remote keys, to obtain unusual chords, and to change the tone color of
the instrument. When a scordatura tuning is required, the composer or orches­
trator must indicate the tuning of the four strings in both the score and parts ei­
ther at the beginning of the piece or at the point in the work when the retiming
is necessary. Plenty of time must be allowed after the scordatura passage is over
if the player is to return to the original tuning, which is signaled by the word ac­
cord or accordatura.
Here are some examples of famous scordatura passages:
C D -1/T R . 4 5

e x a m p le

2 - 6 4 . Бат^Заёпв, Danse macabre, tuning and mm. 25-32

(The “о" here stands for the open string.)

bo w ed

e x a m p le 2 -6 5 .

S t r in g In s t r u m e n t s

Mahler, Symphony No. 4, second movement, mm. 6-18*

CD-l/TR. 4 6

In gemachlicher bewegung
Tuning

Vln.
solo

10

1u ;
p

-

|

P

—

14

L-| Г -Гjg If 3E r 1gfe v

к

e x a m p le

2 - 66 . Stravinsky, Le Sucre du printemps, last measure

Descendez le “la" un yjc
demi-ton plus bas

sj o r

At the end of Stravinsky's Le Sacre du printemps, the composer asks the cellos
to lower the A string to G# so that the final chord can be played. This chord
could not be executed if this scordatura were not asked for.
In the Mahler example, scordatura is used coloristically to make the violin
sound like a "cheap fiddle"; the straining of all four strings caused by raising
each a whole tone removes much of the noble sound we usually associate with
the instrument. Scordatura is used much more today for similar reasons. In
years past, however, it facilitated playing in difficult keys; for example, a viola
would be retimed Dt-Al>-El»-Bl> and its part written out in D major. This may be
observed in the solo viola part of Mozart's Sinfonia concertante (K. 364) in El»
major, where scordatura was thought to facilitate the performance. Another
valid musical reason for the retiming is the increased tension on the string that
gives the viola much greater brilliance.

H a r m o n ic s
Armonici (It .); Harmoniques (Fr .); Flageolettdne or Flageolet (Ger.)

Up until now we have focused on pitches produced either on an open string or
sounded by pressing the string tightly against the fingerboard with the finger.
All string instruments are capable of two other ways of producing pitches. The
first produces a series of pitches called the natural harmonics, the second, a series
called the artificial harmonics.

*The additional flats in the key signature tire necessary to place the solo violin in the key of
the rest o f the orchestra, since all pitches m ust sound a m inor second lower than notated.

41

42

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

C D -R O M
C D -I
N A TU R A L
H A R M O N IC S

Natural Harmonics
Natural harmonics are pitches produced by touching a string lightly at various
points called nodes* along the string. On a G string the resulting pitches, called
harmonics or partials, are as follows:
e x a m p le

2- 67 . Harmonic series on G

XT

Every pitch produced on any sounding body—whether a string or a vibrat­
ing air column—is a combination of the open string, called the fundamental or
first harmonic (or first partial), and some overtones (second partial and higher).
These notes are usually heard as a single or composite tone. The overtones give
individual color or timbre to the fundamental and can be isolated from it on a
string instrument by touching the string lightly at different nodes rather than by
pressing the string firmly against the fingerboard. When the A string of a viola
is lightly touched halfway between the nut and the bridge, for example, the
string is prevented from vibrating as a whole. Its vibrating length is actually cut
into halves, each sounding an octave higher than the pitch of the open string it­
self (in a ratio of 2:1). In theory it does not matter whether the bow is drawn
across the string at the nut or on the bridge side of the node, since either half of
the string gives the higher octave.
On the violin, the natural harmonics can be translated into the following
notes:
e x a m p l e

2 -б в .

Natural Harmonics

T7

Fundamental

Fund.

Fund.

In Example 2-68, the first six partials (remember that the first is the fundamen­
tal) are given because they are the strongest and most successfully produced
harmonics. Higher harmonics (up to the seventh or eighth partial) are quite easy
to obtain on the viola, cello, and double bass, since the strings are longer and
thicker.
Examples 2-69 through 2-72 show where on the lowest string of each string
instrument the various natural harmonics can be produced:
1. First partial: The fundamental, of course, is played on the open string.
2. Second partial: Lightly touching the string halfway between the nut and the
bridge will produce a pitch an octave higher than the fundamental.
‘Nodes are the points of rest between vibrating (or oscillating) portions of a string. If the
same node is touched firmly, the resulting pitch would be the same as that of the harmonic,
but, of course, with a different timbre.

BOWED STRING INSTRUMENTS
e x a m p l e 2 - 6 9 . Natural Harmonics, Second Partial
Violin
Sul G or IV

Viola
Sul С Of IV

Cello
Sul С or IV

Double Bass
Sul E or IV

3. Third partial: This partial can be produced in two different ways:
a. Lightiy touching the string one-third of its length from the nut or the
bridge.
b. Lightly touching the string two-thirds of its length from the nut or the
bridge.
e x a m p l e 2 -7 0 . Natural Harmonics, Third Partial
Violin
Sul G

Vida
Sul С

Cello
Sul С

Double Bass
Sul E

4. Fourth partial: This partial can be obtained in two different ways:
a. Lightly touching the string one-fourth of its length from the nut or the
bridge.
b. Lightly touching the string three-fourths of its length from the nut or the
bridge.
e x a m p l e 2 -7 1 . Natural Harmonics, Fourth Partial
Violin
Sul G

Viola
Sul С

5. Fifth partial: This partial may be produced in four different ways, but only
options a, c, and d (circled in Example 2-72) are secure enough to employ for
orchestral use. Options b is used mainly in solo and chamber music.
a. Lightly touching the string one-fifth of its length from the nut (or fourfifths from the bridge).
b. Lightly touching the string two-fifths of its length from the nut (or threefifths from the bridge).
c. Lightly touching the string three-fifths of its length from the nut (or twofifths from the bridge).
d. Lightly touching the string four-fifths of its length from the nut (or onefifth from the bridge).
e x a m p l e 2 -7 2 . Natural Harmonics, Fifth Partial
Violin
Sul G

Viola
Sul С

Cello
Sul С

Double Bass
Sul E

43

44

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t i o n

Notation of Natural Harmonics
As can be seen in Examples 2-69 through 2-72, two methods are used to notate
harmonics:
1. A small circle over the note intended to sound as a harmonic; or
2. A diamond-shaped note at the pitch where the node producing the desired
note can be found on the string.
Notice that in the examples given above, the string on which the various
harmonics are to be reproduced is specified. That is because some pitches of the
harmonic series on one string are duplicated on another. For example, on the
violin, the pitch

could be produced as a harmonic on the G as well as D

string. Therefore, the string on which the pitch should be obtained must be
specified. If it is to be on the G string, the term sul G should be used; or, for
those who wish to designate the strings by roman numerals, IV (the lowest
string). The following chart gives the roman numerals for each string on the
four instruments of the violin family:
N o m e n c l a t u r e o f t h e St r in g s

Violin

Viola

Cello

Double Bass

I= E
II = A
III = D
IV = G

I= A
II = D
Ш= G
IV = С

I= A
II = D
Ш= G
IV = С

I =G
П= D
Ш= A
IV = E

The following chart shows the various ways of notating harmonics up to the
fifth partial on all open strings; the small noteheads above the diamond-shaped
notes indicate the resulting harmonics. We also provide partials six through ten
for the bass, since those partials are possible to produce on this instrument.
Since the third, fourth, and fifth harmonics can be notated in at least two ways—
the fifth harmonic actually in four—all are shown here.
Q u ic k R e f e r e n c e T a b l e o f N a t u r a l St r i n g H a r m o n ic s
P r a c t i c a l f o r O r c h e s t r a l Sc o r in g

On th e G string

Viola
2

Double Bass

2

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

7

8

9

10

46

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -R O M
C D -t
A RTIFIC IA L
H A R M O N IC S

Artificial Harmonics
Artificial harmonics produce the flutey, silvery sound that is characteristic of
natural harmonics, but involve manipulations of the fingers beyond simply
lightly touching the open string. The most practical way of producing artificial
harmonics is by lightly touching the node the interval of a 4th above a pitch that
is stopped by another finger, and we suggest that this method be adopted for
orchestral performance. On the violin and viola, the player stops a pitch with
the first finger and simultaneously lightly touches the node a 4th above with the
fourth finger. This produces a pitch two octaves above the stopped pitch. On the
cello, an artificial harmonic can be effected by using the thumb to stop the string
and the third or fourth finger to touch the node a 4th above. Since artificial har­
monics on the double bass are hard to produce, we do not recommend their
use—even though some contemporary composers have called for them in solo
music. The necessary stretch of the bassist's hand makes it practically impossi­
ble to play them cleanly. Other methods of producing artificial harmonics on
the violin and viola, which are used in solo and chamber works, will be dis­
cussed in the next chapter in sections devoted to those instruments.

Notation of Artificial Harmonics
1. A normal note with a diamond-shaped note a 4th above it.
exam ple

2-73. Notation of Artificial Harmonics

2. A normal note with a diamond-shaped note a 4th above, plus the actual in­
tended note added above in parentheses.
exam ple

2 - 7 4 . Notation of Artificial Harmonics

<fe)
Via.

3. A small circle above the note that is actually heard as a harmonic. This man­
ner of notation is chancy, for the orchestrator should be responsible for indi­
cating the method of producing the harmonic (that is, touching a 4th above
the stopped note) rather than the performer.
exam p le

2 -7 5 . Notation of Artificial Harmonics

A question often asked is how high one can or should write artificial har­
monics. Although theoretically there is almost no limitation, practically, there is
a reasonable limit, especially for orchestral use, as shown in Example 2-76.
Artificial harmonics higher than these are insecure and often do not speak.

b o w e d s t r in g

e x a m p le

In s t r u m e n t s

2 - 76 . The Highest Practical Artificial Harmonics
1 5 -,

sounds

Vln

-f— Ъ

1

II

Via. К

'

sounds

Vic.

sounds

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are three extended passages that employ harmonics:
e x a m p le

2- 78 . Debussy, Iberia, part 1, at [15]

c d - i / t r . 48

> = 160
Vln. 1

2- 77 . Saint-Sa&is, Violin Concerto, second movement, end (last
13 mm. only heard on recording)

e x a m p le

c d -i/ t r. 47

Andante

e x a m p l e

2 - 7 9 . Borodin, String Quartet No. 1, third movement, Trio, mm. 1-20

Moderato (J = 92)

C D -I/ T R . 4 9

47

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Barber, Medea, "Dance of Vengeance," at [зП
Berg, Wozzeck, Act I, Scene 2, just before |230|, and Act Ш, Scene 5 ,1 m. before
l380l
Copland, Symphony No. 3, second movement, mm. 100-106 (first violins); see
also Example 3-18
Ravel, Sheherazade, 3 mm. after |~5~|
Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, second movement, Vivace scherzando
Schoenberg, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 212-225 (extensive use in
solo part)

B o w ed S t r in g I n s t r u m e n t s

Webern, Six Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6, No. 5; see also Example 3-19
Webern, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 10, second movement

C O N T E M P O R A R Y S T R IN G T E C H N IQ U E S
During the past forty years, a great number of innovations in string technique
have been added to the vocabulary. There are so many modifications, in fact,
that entire volumes are devoted to a discussion of these newer techniques. Here,
it is only possible to mention some of the most important and codify in terms of
notation those most commonly used. Such books as David H. Cope's New
Directions in Music (McGraw-Hill), Gardner Read's Contemporary Instrumental
Techniques (Schinner Books), and Kurt Stone's Music Notation in the Twentieth
Century (W. W. Norton) can be consulted for a more complete discussion of
these techniques.
Some of the most important contemporary innovations in string technique
are the following. The notational signs included in this list are those most com­
monly used*:
1. Playing on the wrong side of the bridge—that is, the tailpiece, not the fin­
gerboard
•fffj' playing all four strings behind the bridge
'Щ' three strings
'ft' two strings
Ф one string only
One can also play col legno behind the bridge.
2. Playing the tailpiece with the bow hair or striking it with the wood of the
bow ^ f . (If the performers are to strike the tailpiece with the wood of the
bow, the word battute should precede the passage.)
3. Knocking, rapping, or tapping on the body of the instrument either with
one's fingers or knuckles. This is usually requested on the score in a foot
note and further explained there. Usual notation: J J""]
4. Performing wide vibratos, as represented by the notation:
5. Bowing on a harmonic node with great pressure in order to produce notes
well below the open string of the instrument (called subharmonics or
undertones).
6. Playing, in any mode specified, the highest note on a particular string
SulG

(here on the G string); or if this sign is used without designating
a string, simply playing the highest note on the instrument.
*For an excellent example of practical guidance regarding the use of new notation in an or­
chestral score, see Example 5-32a, p. 149.

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

7. Fingering a passage without drawing the bow across the strings, as in
Foss's Time Cycle, second movement (1 measure before 95). This gives a
quiet, ghostly sound, with almost inaudible pitches and the slight sound of
the fingers slapping down on the strings.
8. Executing pizzicatos with plectrums or hair combs.
9. Playing half harmonics by either touching the string lightly not at a har­
monic node or touching it more firmly than usual at a harmonic node. This
effect sounds somewhat like sul tasto.
Many harmonics that have been considered unplayable on the double
bass are now being performed in solo and chamber music literature, but
they would be dangerous to use in orchestral writing.
10. Bowing near the nut rather than the bridge "on the wrong side of the left
hand" in order to produce a viol-like sound. This technique is typical of
George Crumb and some other recent composers. The fingering, of course,
would be reversed; Crumb even asks that the beginning pitch be marked on
the fingerboard with a chalk mark. This effect is required in his Black Angels,
a work for amplified string quartet. It should not be casually used in orches­
tral works, however, because few players would be able to produce it.
When any of these devices is used in an orchestral score or, for that matter, any­
where in a work, whether solo, chamber, or orchestral, a verbal description of
the desired sounds, as well as the exact technique by which the sounds may be
realized, must be included in the score. In the interest of maximum communica­
tion between composer and performer, we suggest that the procedures outlined
in Kurt Stone's Music Notation in the Twentieth Century be adopted.w

3

In d i v i d u a l B o w e d S t r i n g
In s t r u m e n t s

V io l in
Violino (It.); Violon (Fr.); Violine or Geige (Ger.)

The violin is the soprano instrument of the string section. It is held on the left
shoulder, supported by the left side of the chin, and held from underneath by the
left arm and hand at the instrument's neck. All techniques and coloristic effects
discussed in Chapter 2 are within the scope of this most versatile instrument.

51

52

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Tuning, Range, and Fingering
EXAMPLE 3-1 . Tuning

All music for the violin is written in the treble clef. The roman numerals above
the staff in Example 3-1 give the nomenclature for each string used by string
players. Notice that the uppermost string is I.
3 -2 . Range

exam ple

The practical orchestral range of the violin (not using harmonics) extends
from G3 to E7, but in solo or chamber music playing, B7 or even higher is possi­
ble. It must be kept in mind that the extremely high range on any string instru­
ment is difficult to control, and only in the past one hundred fifty years has it
been used extensively. During the Classical period, the limit of the violin range
-

was

. Beyond the seventh position, in which that A is the highest

note, the spaces between the fingers become progressively smaller, making lefthand control more and more tenuous as the thumb, which acts as a stabilizing
lever on the neck and body of the instrument, loses its hold. The hand must
therefore seek the higher notes without the orientation of the thumb's position.
C D -R O M
C D -I
F IN G E R IN G /
S H IF T IN G
O N T H E V IO L IN

Fingering
The fingering for the first five positions on the violin is as follows:
F IN G E R IN G O N T H E V IO L IN *

I

*

I

First Finger
First Position *\
First Finger
■Second Position

Second Finger
t

Third Finger

first Finger
Third Position
Al

Ы

Fourth Finger

Al

First Finger
Fourth Position
First Finger
Fifth Position

'Dotted lines on the left of the diagram indicate half positions—that is, alternative finger­
ings used mostly in first position to perform chromatic or whole-tone passages, or those based
on synthetic scales, more easily.

INDIVIDUAL BOWED STRING INSTRUMENTS

Notice that from the open G to Cf4, and then from B6 up, the pitches are
available on one string only. Starting with D4 ^ „ = each pitch may be played
on more than one string.
e x a m p le

3-3. Fingering for First Five Positions

D4, for instance, can be played on the open string or with the fourth finger on
the G string in first position. It can also be performed with the third finger on
the G string in second position, the second finger on the G string in third posi­
tion, or the first finger on the G string in fourth position. It would be futile, then,
to specify where the violinist is to play a particular pitch when it can be dupli­
cated in many places on the instrument. If the composer or orchestrator is very
familiar with the fingering of the instrument, he or she may wish to indicate a
certain fingering in the score and parts to achieve a desired timbre. Except
under special circumstances such as this, the actual fingering is best left to the
performer.
Let us examine what we mean by timbral considerations. The open strings
have a distinctive sound of their own. They have greater vibrating potential,
since they are not under the controlling influence provided by the finger, which
presses and oscillates on a string to produce a stopped note with vibrato. In a
fast passage the combination of open and stopped strings may not sound jar­
ring, but in slow, expressive passages, one usually wants all the tones to have
the same timbre, otherwise the notes that are played on the open strings can
stand out peculiarly. But this effect is sometimes exploited, as in the Brahms
melody in Example 3-4, in which all notes are played on the G string. Here, lis­
ten to the vibrant sound that the open G string creates.
e x a m p l e 3 - 4 . Brahms, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 61-75

Passages Performed Exclusively on a Single String
We will now focus on the particular properties and sound qualities of each of
the violin's four strings. It is virtually impossible to describe the many shades
of sound that the violin can produce; it is far more effective to illustrate this al­
most unlimited potential throughout the violin's entire range with numerous
examples from the literature. Suffice to say that if one wishes to have a passage

CD-l/TR. 5 0

53

54

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

performed on one string exclusively, the passage should be marked sul plus the
string name, such as sul E, sul A, sul D, or sul G. (The French, however, prefer to
use roman numerals, as in Example 3-1,) This practice should be followed for
any instrument of the violin family.

The G String
The G string is the thickest and most sonorous of the four violin strings. As
the player moves into higher positions on it, the sound becomes very intense be­
cause the vibrating portion of the string is constantly being shortened.
exam ple

C D -1/T R. 5 1

S

3 -5 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 111-119

ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY

Mahler, Symphony No. 3, first movement, mm. 5-8.

The D String
The quality of this string's sound is probably the least distinctive of the four
strings. Yet it can exude warmth and lyricism, as in the passage shown in
Example 3-6. Its sound mellows even more in its higher positions as its vibrat­
ing length is shortened.
C D -1/T R . 5 2

exam ple

3-6. Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, third movement, mm. 1-8

The A String
The characteristic sound of the A string is most striking in first position; it
loses some of its brilliance and power in the upper positions, which are better
suited to soft, lyrical passages. If brilliance in the upper registers is desired, the
player should be directed to cross to the E string for the rest of the passage.
C D -I/ T R . 5 3

exam ple

3-7. Puccini, Madama Butterfly, Act П, at [Тб]
Largamente
Sul A

In d iv id u a l B o w e d S t r i n g
В

in s t r u m e n t s

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E FO R S T U D Y

Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement, mm. 13-24

The E String
This is the most brilliant of the four strings. Notice how luminous it becomes
at the top of its range.

One can also elicit a quiet, mysterious quality from this string when playing at a
soft dynamic.
e x a m p l e

3-9. Prokofiev, Classical Symphony, second movement, mm. 5-13

CD-1/TR. 5 5

Vln. 1

Multiple Stops
The multiple-stop technique has already been discussed in general terms for all
string instruments. Although we focus specifically on double, triple, and
quadruple stopping for the violin, it is important to emphasize that most diffi­
cult double stopping is reserved for solo and possibly chamber music. In orches­
tral writing, only the most easily accessible double stops are usually used,
particularly for secco chordal effects or particularly sonorous passages. Since a
conventional symphony orchestra has at least sixteen first violins and fourteen
second violins, passages that would be quite difficult for one performer are
quite simple when played divisi.
Examples 3-10 through 3-13 give a partial list of the double, triple, and
quadruple stops on the violin. Some of these multiple stops are quite difficult to
reach with small hands.

C D -R O M
C D -I
M U L T IP L E S T O P S
O N T H E V IO L IN

55

EX A M PLE 3 - 1 0 . Double Stops

e x a m p l e 3 - 1 1 . Chromatic Double Stops

exam ple

3 - 1 2 . Triple Stops'

0

1

■6

z

p

CL

В

P qО _
z

z

7

Гf

'Remember that all string triple and quadruple stops are of necessity arpeggiated.

etc

In d i v i d u a l b o w e d S t r i n g I n s t r u m e n t s
ex a m p le

3 - 1 3 . Quadruple Stops

Harmonics
In solo violin and some chamber music, composers have required the violinist
to produce artificial harmonics in other ways than have been demonstrated in
Chapter Two (pp. 46-48). But these alternate ways, given as options 2, 3, and 4
below, are seldom used in orchestral writing because they produce especially
weak tones and are extremely risky to carry off. Since the first option given
below is easiest to play, it is found most often in orchestral scores.

"Touch 4th" Harmonics
To review, the most practical way to produce artificial harmonics for orches­
tral writing is the "touch 4th" method, which results in a note two octaves
above the fundamental (the fingered note in Example 3-14).*

*In the examples, 0 under a note designates an open string, and 1 indicates the first (left
index) finger to finger the note.

58

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

exam ple

"Touch 4th" Harmonics

r r r r m
"Touch 5th" Harmonics
The "touch 5th" harmonics produce a tone that is one octave and a perfect
5th above the fundamental.
3-1 s . 'T ou ch 5th" Harmonics

I

exam ple

larmonlcs

'

Lightly touched note
Fingered note

3 -14 .

Lightly touched note
Fingered note

ГТГГГГ

"Touch Major 3rd" Harmonics
The "touch major 3rd" harmonics produce a pitch two octaves and a major
3rd above the fundamental.
exam ple

3 - 1 6 . 'Touch Major 3rd" Harmonics
Actual harmonics

Lightly touched note
Fingered note

in d iv id u a l

B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

"Touch Minor 3rd" Harmonics
The "touch minor 3rd" harmonics produce a pitch two octaves and a perfect
5th above the fundamental.
exam ple

3-17.

'Touch Minor 3rd" Harmonics
Actual harmonics

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are some successful orchestral passages using both natural and artifi­
cial harmonics.
exam ple

3 - 1 8 . Copland, Symphony No. 3, fourth movement, 3-8 mm. after

з-19. Webern, Six Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6, No. 5, mm. 20-26
(strings only)
exam ple

rit. - - - - noch langsamer
mit Dmpf.

(J> = ca. 60)

verloschend

verloschend
verloschend

Vln. 2 1

verloschend
о

О

verloschend
о

о

verloschend

I

C D -1/TR. 5 6
INDEX 2 / 0 : 1 7

rr\

Vln.l

C D -1/TR. 5 6
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

О

о

59

The Solo Violin
The violin has long been a favorite solo instrument of many composers. Almost
every great master of orchestral music since the Baroque period has written vio­
lin concertos showcasing the tremendous range, versatility, and expressive pos­
sibilities of the instrument. Everyone should become acquainted with the

INDIVIDUAL BOWED ST R IN G INSTRU M ENTS

masterpieces in this genre by such composers as Bach, Mozart, Beethoven,
Mendelssohn, Brahms, DvoMk, Tchaikovsky, Bruch, Lalo, Schoenberg, Berg,
Stravinsky, Bartok, Prokofiev, Penderecki, and Rochberg, to name only a few.
The violin has also been greatly exploited as an occasional solo instrument
within the orchestra. When one solo violin is called for, the concertmaster will
play the part. When two soloists are required, the first stand of the first violins
will be called on. Another arrangement would be for the composer to write one
solo part for the first violin and another for the second violin, in which case the
concertmaster and the principal second violinist will play. Some of the solo
parts in the orchestral literature are quite virtuosic; therefore the principal play­
ers of all sections must be of solo caliber.
Here are two examples of solo violin passages from orchestral works. See
also Example 2-41.

61

C D -l/ T R . 5 7
IN D EX 2 / 1 : 1 5

exam ple

3-22. R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 73-81
Andante__

73
Vln. solo

~3--- 1 1—3

molto espress.

3— —3~

molto espress.

In d i v i d u a l B o w e d S t r i n g I n s t r u m e n t s

Щ

A D D ITIO N A L PA SSA G ES FOR S T U D Y

Grofe, Grand Canyon Suite, "On the Trail," beginning (solo violin cadenza)
Respighi, Feste romane, third movement, 4 mm. after [25]
Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, first movement, at \C\ (cadenza that recurs
throughout the work; two other instances are in first movement, at [G], and
second movement, beginning)
R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 205-209

Other Violin Techniques
Skips
Even though the violin is a most versatile and agile instrument, the problem
of fast, wide skips presents real difficulties. They can sound thrilling, especially
if the skips are from the extreme low register to the extreme high register, but
one must realize that a soloist can execute this sudden shift more accurately
than a whole section. The difficulty is that the entire left-hand position has to be
completely altered, and sometimes strings have to be crossed silently yet
smoothly, or a very high note must follow an extremely low one on the same
string. Most skillful players can give a fairly good impression of legato playing
when performing a skip, even when there is a string intervening in the skip, but
simply hitting the correct pitch can be difficult. Some of these difficulties are
demonstrated in the following passages from orchestral violin parts. (Note that
recordings are misleading, for when the section does not clearly articulate the
skip, the passage is retaped until it is perfect.)
1. Wide skips on the same string:
e x a m p l e 3-23. Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Prelude, m m . 33-38

CD-1/TR. 5 8

2. Wide skips between extreme ranges:
e x a m p l e 3-24. Bartok, Divertimento, first movement, mm. 50-52

CD-1/TR. 5 9

63

64

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

3. Wide skips played legato:
e x a m p le

C D -l/ T R . 6 0

3 - 2 5 . Berg, Lyric Suite, f o u r t h m o v e m e n t , m m . 10-14

V llL l

Щ

A D D ITIO N A L P ASSA G ES FOR S TU D Y

Wide Skips on the Same String:
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, first movement, mm. 51-62
Wide Skips between Extreme Ranges:
Copland, Symphony No. 3, fourth movement, mm. 2-4 after [%]
Prokofiev, Classical Symphony, first movement, second theme
Wide Skips Played Legato:
Stravinsky, Agon, Pas de deux, mm. 411-418
Chromatic Passages
Issues surrounding the fingering of chromatic passages should be men­
tioned here. All chromatic notes from the low G on the G string to the highest
register can be produced easily on the violin. Usually, a player fingers a chro­
matic pitch using the same finger that normally plays the nonchromatic equiva­
lent. For instance, in the following example notice that the finger that normally
plays F is also used to play Ft.
e x a m p le

Chromatic Scale Fingering

3 -2 6 .

Sometimes the performer will choose not to risk the portamento that is in­
evitable if the chromatic scale is performed as in Example 3-26. In these in­
stances the scale will be played in "half position," in which a different finger is
used for every note.
e x a m p le

0

1

Chromatic Scale in "Half Position"

3 -2 7 .
2

1

2

3

4

0

4

3

2

1

2

1

0
same fingering on
all strings

I n d i v i d u a l B o w e d s t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

This method is most appropriate in fast passages, for it minimizes the audible
shifting of the same finger.

V IO L A
Viola (It .); Alto (Fr.); Bratsche (Ger.)

The viola is the alto voice of the string orchestra and its playing technique is
similar to that of the violin. There are some issues to keep in mind when writing
for viola. The most obvious is the size of the instrument. It is quite a bit larger
than the violin, sometimes as much as three to four inches, and this means that
the hand must stretch more to get the intervals in time. The tension on the left
hand is also greater, especially in the higher positions. There are variations in
the size of violas, and experts do not agree on the ideal size for the most beauti­
ful, characteristically dark-hued tone quality. Today, violists pick their instru­
ment in proportion to the size of their left hand.

Of all the bowed strings, the viola has been the slowest to emerge into the
consciousness of composers. Even though trills, bowings, harmonics, arpeggios,
double, triple, and quadruple stops are just as successful on the viola as on the
violin, this instrument has been undeservedly neglected by many great masters
of the past. There may be two principal reasons for this:
1. The eighteenth-century masters rarely wrote for four independent string
voices.
2. For a long time, most violists were converted violinists and did not always
enjoy the full trust of composers.
Although Bach, Stamitz, and Mozart wrote occasional solo or concertante works
for the viola, Berlioz was the first to give it a truly independent voice in orches­
tral writing.

66

The S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Tuning, Range, and Fingering
exam ple

3 - 2 8 . Tuning

IV

III

II

Viola music is usually notated in the alto clef, but to avoid ledger lines, the
upper notes are sometimes written in treble clef.
exam ple

3 - 2 9 . Viola Notation

exam ple

3 - 3 0 . Range

all chromatic
pitches у /

a.
—

Let us observe some differences between the viola and the violin, which
should help define its function in the orchestra.
1. The viola bow is slightly heavier than that for the violin.
2. The strings are thicker and more resistant to the bow, which necessitates a
firmer stroke to produce a full sound. Lighter bowings are also possible but
are more difficult to produce.
3. Harmonics are easier to play because the thicker strings produce them more
reliably.
C D -R O M
C D -I
F IN G E R IN G /
S H IF T IN G
O N T H E V IO L A

Fingering
F IN G E R IN G O N T H E V IO L A

С G

1

a

At a

/

A

1

ft

'El aJ

а

First Finger
First Position

С

D A

E

в

_F_ C(
В
Ы a!

Second Finger

в

В a
Ff

a

Third Finger

F

c

_G

D

a

a

Ai В

Ft

d

Gl* D*

ga

D

A

Fourth Finger

i-

E

a
я
*<й D? ~a£

F

A

Ft

E

H-

В

First Finger
Second Position

d;

First Finger
Third Position

h-

First Finger
Fourth Position

First Finger
Fifth Position

in d iv id u a l

B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

The fingering system is identical to that of the violin, and the same multiplestop patterns are available on the viola, but lie a fifth lower. Similarly, all the
points already discussed for the violin about half positions, chromatic finger­
ings, pizzicato, and other coloristic effects (pp. 63-65) apply equally to the viola.

Passages Performed Exclusively on a Single String
The С String
The only string of the four viola strings not found on the violin, it is con­
sidered to have the most characteristic viola sound. It has been described by
the nineteenth-century Belgian musicologist-composer Franqois Gevaert as
"somber, austere, and sometimes even forbidding."
e x a m p l e

3 - 3 1 . Hindemith, Sonata, Op. 11, No. 4, first movement, mm. 15-16

CD-I/TR. 6 1

PP

The G and D Strings
Emitting the least characteristic viola sound, these two strings may be called
the "accompaniment strings" because on these the violist performs the many ac­
companying figures composers have traditionally given this instrument. But
they can also be exploited for their dark quality, as in the following passage:
e x a m p l e

3-32.

Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, fourth movement, mm. 42-51

Andante

The A String
While not as brilliant as the E string on the violin, the A string is quite
piercing and nasal in quality. It combines beautifully with woodwind instru­
ments and, in some cases, doubles well with soft trumpets and trombones.
Because of its carrying power, it has been used a great deal in solo viola
passages.

C D -I/TR. 6 2

67

68

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

C D -I / T R . 6 3

e x a m p l e 3 -3 3 . Hindemith, Der Schwanendreher, first movement, mm. 48-59

Multiple Stops
Examples 3-34 through 3-36 give a partial list of double, triple, and quadruple
stops possible on the viola. Multiple stops can be performed divisi by the viola
section of the orchestra, similar to those written for violin.
example

з - з л . Double Stops

С and G strings

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

г f г 7T ' ’П

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

"го Ti iг T Г Н
1

2

3

1

3

4

Examples of double stops on the G and D strings, as well as on the D and A
strings, can be similarly constructed.

e x a m p l e 3 - 3 5 . Triple Stops

Triple stops on the G, D, and A strings can be tabulated in the same manner as
those on the C, G, and D strings. These triple stops are all played in first position.
exam ple

3 -3 6 . Quadruple Stops

70

The

stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are some characteristic passages illustrating the sound of harmonics, pizzi­
cato, double stops, and other coloristic effects on the viola. A passage that
demonstrates the use of the viola as the bass of the string section occurs in
Example 3-37; one that is typical of the many filler passages so common in the
orchestral literature occurs in Example 3-38. An example that couples violins
and violas in octaves is found in Example 3-39, and one that successfully cou­
ples violas and cellos in Example 3-40.
C D -lfT R . 6 4

exam ple

mm. 45-49

3-37. Mendelssohn, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Overture,
Fast

CD-1/TR. 6 5

exam ple

3 - 3 8 . Wagner, Lohengrin, Act Ш, "In femen Land," mm. 12-19
3

3

3

3

in dividu al B ow ed s t r i n g I n s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p l e 3 - 39 . Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, first movement, mm. 1 5 5 - 1 5 9

c d -i/ tr . 6 6

3 - 4 0 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 1-10

gjp-l/TR. 6 7

e x a m p l e

Andante

p dolce

Я

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E S F O R S T U D Y

Hindemith, Der Schwanendreher, first movement, nun. 1-11
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part П, nun. 56-62
Tchaikovsky, Romeo and Juliet, mm. 114-116

The Solo Viola
The Baroque masters wrote many concertos for the viola, and some preClassical composers followed their lead. However, after that period, except for
the Sinfonia concertante of Mozart for violin and viola (K. 364) and the solo part
in Berlioz's Harold in Italy, little significant solo viola music appeared until
Wagner and Strauss in the late nineteenth century. In the twentieth century,
however, the viola achieved an almost equal status with its relatives in the
bowed string group. Works such as Debussy's Sonata for Flute, Viola, and Harp,
Bartok's and Walton's viola concertos, Hindemith's Der Schwanendreher, and
Vaughan Williams's Flos Campi offer proof. Some wonderful examples of solo or
concertante viola passages from the orchestral literature are the following:
e x a m p l e

3 - 4 i . Scriabin, Poem of Ecstasy, mm. 22-25

p espr.

poco cresc.

dim.

CD-I/TR. 6 8

71

72

TH E STU D Y O F ORCH ESTRATIO N

C D -l/ T R . 6 9

exam ple

,

3 -4 2 . R. Strauss, Don Quixote, Variation 2, Vivace, m m . 1-19

Rather free

lebhaft

C D -l/ T R . 7 0

e x a m p l e 3 - 4 3 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, "Cercles mysterieux des
adolescentes,"at [91~|

Andante con moto (J = 60)

A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S TU D Y

Berg, Wozzeck, Act I, Scene 1
Berlioz, Harold in Italy, first movement, mm. 38-68
Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Act П, Scenes 3 and 7, and Act Ш, Scene 5

I n d i v i d u a l B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

Viola d'amore (It.)
Viole d'amour (Fr.); Liebesgeige (Ger.)

The viola d'amore has never been a regular member of the orchestra. There is
continuing interest in using its characteristic sound in solo and chamber music,
as well as in soloistic passages in larger works such as Bach's St. John Passion
("Erwage, erwage," measures 1-5) and several of his cantatas, Meyerbeer's Les
Huguenots (Example 3-51), Massenet's Le Jongleur de Notre Dame, Pfitzner's
Palestrina, and Loeffler's La Mort de Tintagiles. A viola d'amore accompanies the
women's offstage chorus in Act П of Puccini's Madama Butterfly.
exam ple

3-44 . Usual Timing

The principle on which the sound of this instrument is based is sympathetic
vibration. Besides the seven strings that are bowed and fingered, seven sympa­
thetic strings, made of steel wire, lie just above the belly of the instrument and
directly below each of the bowed strings. The sympathetic strings are generally
timed in unison with the bowed strings.
In order to allow the sound of these sympathetic strings to be heard freely in
keys other than D major, alternative tunings have been used. The most common
alteration is to lower the Fl string to F^, thus producing a D-minor tuning.
example

3-45 . D-minor Timing

XT

Hindemith used two different tunings in his works for viola d'amore:
example

3- 46. Tuning for Hindemith, Sonata for Viola d'amore and Piano,

Op. 25, No. 4

e x a m p l e 3-47. Tuning for Hindemith, Kammermusik No. 6 for Viola d'amore
and Orchestra, Op. 46, No. 1
.Q .

Vivaldi used the following tunings on six-string viola d'amores in his concertos:
example

3 - 4 8 . Tuning for Vivaldi Concertos

74

th e

Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Viola d'amore music is written today in the alto and treble clefs, although in
the past, music for the lower strings was often notated in the bass clef, sounding
an octave higher.
exam ple

3-49. Range

The instrument is slightly larger than the modern violin. Chords and arpeg­
gios are easy to play, especially in keys related to the tuning used. Natural har­
monics are also easily obtained up to the fifth harmonic. Here are the resulting
harmonics in the usual D-major tuning:
exam ple
2nd harmonic

3 - 5 0 . Viola d'amore Harmonics
3rd harmonic

о
»

n

II>-|H

15 H

4th harmonic

Sth harmonic

_

-

Artificial harmonics are also possible, the most successful being those pro­
duced by the "touch fourth" method. All other violin techniques of fingering,
bowing, and obtaining coloristic effects can also be executed on the viola
d'amore.
Two passages from the literature for viola d'amore are the following. In the
first, the voice is not recorded on the CD:
C D -I/ T R . 7 1

exam ple

mm. 1-19

3 - 5 1 . Meyerbeer, Les Huguenots, Act I, "Ah! quel spectacle,"

In d iv id u a l B o w e d s t r in g In s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p l e

3 - 5 2 . Hindemith, Kleine Senate, second movement, mm. 14-37

14 Sehr langsam

V io lo n c e llo or C ello
Violoncello (It.); Violoncelle (Fr .); Violoncell (Ger.)

The cello is both the tenor and the bass
of the string section. Whereas the violin
and viola rest on the left shoulder and
are supported by the chin, the cello, be­
cause of its larger size, is held between
the knees while the player sits; addi­
tional support is provided by an ad­
justable peg that slides out of the
bottom of the instrument and reaches
to the floor. The neck of the cello points
over the player's left shoulder.

75

76

T h e s t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Tuning, Range, and Fingering
e x a m p l e 3 - 5 3 . Tuning
IV

III

II

i

All music for the cello is written in either the bass, tenor, or treble clef.
Example 3-54 gives the suggested clef changes to avoid multiple ledger lines:
exam ple

3-54. Clefs

A warning to score readers: In some older editions of orchestral scores, cello
parts notated in the treble clef were meant to sound an octave lower than writ­
ten. Today, all cello parts, whether notated in the bass, tenor, or treble clef,
sound as written.
exam ple

CD -RO M
C D -I
FINGERING/
SH IF T IN G
ON T H E C E L L O

3-55. Range

Fingering
Because of the greater length of the cello strings, a different fingering system
from that used on a violin or viola is employed. In first position, the normal
compass between the first and fourth fingers is a 3rd, with the second finger
used only for chromatic intervals. As the hand moves to higher positions the
physical distance between the intervals diminishes and all four fingers are used
more often, similar to the fingering on the viola. Because the cellist's left hand is
freed from the burden of supporting the instrument, the thumb can be used in
higher positions. In seventh position, the left thumb leaves its position around
the neck and therefore is able to finger higher notes. With the additional use
of the thumb, the cellist can stretch to octave double stops on adjacent strings
with relative ease, although double stops larger than a sixth are difficult in the
low register. The sign in the score that indicates to the performer to use the
thumb is 9.
exam ple

3 - 5 6 . Fingering with the Thumb

?

9

3 ? 3

1

2

1

3

2

1

9

1

2

I n d i v i d u a l B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

The following fingering chart shows some thumb positions.
F ingering on t h e C e l l o
I C G D A |

First Finger
First Position - - - -

oйТедодЛ
в

в*. ^
Second Finger....... D
MaI ’

First Finger
.......Second Position

Third Finger----Fourth Finger

-----First Finger
Third Position
----- First Finger
Fourth Position

T

---J- First Finger
Fifth Position

Tone Quality
Ecstatic descriptions of the cello's tone quality cannot convey the singular
beauty of this instrument's sound in passages that feature the entire section as
well as those in which the cello acts as one voice within a contrapuntal texture.
The D is the most musically captivating string on this instrument, exuding a
warm and lyrical quality. The A is the most brilliant and piercing; the G is the
least strong and carries less well than the others. Because of its weight and
thickness, the C, the lowest string, is a richly sonorous bass. Berlioz once said
that the cello is not "capable of extreme agility." This statement cannot but ap­
pear completely erroneous today, for the cello can execute practically any tech­
nical feat possible on the viola or the violin.
Here are some representative passages:
e x a m p l e

3 -57 . Wagner, Tristan und Isolde, Prelude, mm. 17-32

C D-t/TR. 7 3
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

77

78

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

exam ple

C D -I/ T R . 7 3
IN D EX 2 / 1 : 4 0

3 - 5 8 . Harris, Symphony No. 3, first movement, mm. 1-27

Moderato (J = 84)
Vic.

$

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Beethoven, Symphony No. 3, first movement, mm. 1-8
Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement, mm. 1—12
Brahms, Symphony No. 2, third movement, mm. 194-202
Cellos are frequently used divisi to create a very rich effect, as in the follow­
ing example:
C D -I/ T R . 7 4

exam ple

2

5СеШ
SOU

5

3 - 5 9 . Rossini, William Tell, Overture, mm. 1-10

in d iv id u a l b o w e d s t r i n g

In s t r u m e n t s

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E S F O R S T U D Y

Debussy, La Mer, first movement (throughout)
Mahler, Das Lied von der Erde, fifth movement, mm. 1-4 at [lO]
R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, 18 mm. before [Ш] to 1 m. before [lO] (divided
cellos and basses)

Multiple Stops
Here is a partial list of double, triple, and quadruple stops possible on the cello.
e x a m p l e

0

0

3 - 6 0 . Double Stops
0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

79

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

EXAMPLE 3 - 6 t . Triple Stops

Harmonics
The ways of obtaining natural harmonics on the cello are identical to those for
the other string instruments; cello harmonics are even more secure because of
the greater length and weight of the strings on this larger instrument. The
"touch 4th" technique is the most successful for orchestral writing and produces
the best quality of artificial harmonic. These artificial "touch 4th" harmonics are
played with the thumb (on the fundamental) and the third or fourth finger
throughout the entire range of the instrument.

I n d i v i d u a l B o w e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p le

3 - 6 3 . Harmonics on the Cello

a. NATURAL HARMONICS
Actual harmonia

b . N A T U R A L AN D A R T I F I C I A L H A R M O N I C S

Я

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E F O R S T U D Y

J. Corigliano, Phantasmagoria (beginning)

The Solo Cello in Concertos and within the Orchestra
The cello literature is rich in concertos by the major composers of the Baroque
period through the twentieth century. Some outstanding examples are by
Boccherini, Haydn, Beethoven (triple), Schumann, Brahms (double), Dvorak,
Tchaikovsky (Rococo Variations), Lalo, Victor Herbert, Milhaud, Bloch
(Schelomo), Hindemith, Barber, Walton, LutosXawski, Penderecki, Stephen
Albert, Christopher Rouse, and Joan Tower.
Frequently, the cello is used as an occasional soloist in an orchestral work,
such as in the following famous passage:
e x a m p l e

3 -6 4 .

R. Strauss, Don Quixote, mm. 163-176

Andante con moto

81

82

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

& ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Brahms, Piano Concerto No. 2, third movement, mm. 71-86
Haydn, Symphony No. 95, second movement (throughout), third movement
(Trio)

The Cello in Combination with Other Instruments
This subject will be discussed in greater detail in later chapters. Suffice to say
that the cello doubles well with many instruments in all the orchestral choirs.
The most widely used doublings are cello and double bass, cello and bassoon,
cello and clarinet or bass clarinet, cello and horn, and pizzicato cello and tim­
pani. In the following example the second cello doubles the first viola.
C D -lr t-R . 7 6

exam ple

3 - 6 5 . Barber, Essay for Orchestra No. 1, mm. 1-10

in d i v i d u a l

в

B o w e d S t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

AD DITIO NAL P A S S A G E S FOR ST U D Y

Beethoven, Symphony No. 5, third movement, mm. 162-179
Glinka, Ruslan and Lyudmila, Overture, mm. 81-100
Schubert, Symphony No. 9, Introduction (cello and viola double for the whole
introduction)
Verdi, Falstaff, Act I, second measure after [ty, for 8 mm. (cello and piccolo
melody five octaves apart)

Do u b l e B a s s
Contrabasso (It .); Contrebasse (Fr .); Kontrabass (G er .)

This is the real bass voice of the string
choir. The practical orchestral range is
from E2 (sounding an octave lower) to
Bi>4 (again sounding an octave lower);
in solo passages, higher notes can be
produced through the use of natural
harmonics. The double bass rests on
an adjustable peg; the player stands,
or sits on a high stool, and supports
the instrument with the body and the
left knee. Almost all orchestral play­
ers use a large, full-sized instrument,
although some solo performers have
used smaller models, which are more
flexible and easier to play. These
smaller models, however, do not have
the true contrabass tone quality.

Tuning, Range, and Fingering
exam ple

IV

3 - 6 6 . Timing
III

II

I

V

IV

III

II

I

The double bass is notated an octave higher than it actually sounds, thus:
exam ple

3 - 6 7 . Double-Bass Notation

83

84

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

All music for the double bass is written in bass, tenor, or treble clef. A
change of clef is suggested to avoid notes with three or more ledger lines.
EXAMPLE 3-68. Range
all chromatic Ditches

о

There are two minor differences in construction between the double bass
and the other members of the violin family: its shoulders are sloped rather than
curved, and it has cogwheel tuning pegs to cope with the thickness of its strings.
Despite its size, a single double bass has a rather small sound. Double-bass solos
sound thin and distant, as can be heard in the opening measures of the second
movement of Mahler's Symphony No. 1. On the other hand, a group or section
of basses, such as in the trio of the third movement of Beethoven's Symphony
No. 5, can sound quite loud and raucous. Because of its thick and heavy strings,
the instrument's articulation is more sluggish than that of any other string in­
strument. It is important to remember, this fact when doubling basses with cel­
los in fast passages. Some of Beethoven's passages for the bass section sound
muddied, particularly when played by the larger orchestra of today; conductors
have taken liberties to ameliorate this peculiar but natural acoustic phenome­
non, as in the following example.
C D - I /TR. 7 7
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exam ple

319

3 - 6 9 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 319-323
A )le g r°

Here is a practical solution to clarify the sound of the above passage:
C D -I /TR. 7 7
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 5

exam p le 3 -7 0 .

clarified

Beethoven, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 319-323,

I n d i v id u a l b o w e d S t r i n g i n s t r u m e n t s

Fingering
Because the double bass is so large and its strings so long, even small inter­
vals are separated by a wide physical space. For instance, in the lower positions,
the first to fourth fingers encompass a major second. On the double bass the
third finger usually is not used independendy up to and including the fifth po­
sition but is placed together with the fourth finger on the string. Therefore, from
the first through the fifth positions, only the first, second, and fourth fingers are
used; in the sixth position, the third finger is sometimes used, and after the sev­
enth position, the thumb can also be called on.
exam ple

3 - 7 1 . Double-Bass Fingering

half pos.

4th pos.

C D -RO M
C D -I
FINGERING/
S H IF T IN G
ON T H E D O U B L E
BA SS

4 14 pos.

1st pos.

5th pos.

1 Vi pos.

6 th pos.

2nd pos.

3rd pos.

3 V2 pos.

б Vi pos.

7th pos.

7 V2 pos.
4

A word of warning: Moving up into the upper range on the double bass is best
done by means of small intervals—steps or small skips—rather than large leaps,
since the player must reorient the left hand when approaching the upper regis­
ter, a more difficult task due to the tremendous length of the strings. But this
upper range can be used very effectively in orchestral music, as long as a common-sense approach is taken in how to get the performer to it.
The following excerpt for double bass is particularly characteristic (in the
opera, it is doubled with tuba):
exam ple

158

3 -72 . Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Overture, m m . 158-172

Allegro

CD-I/TR. 7 8

85

The Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

К

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, fourth movement, mm. 41-47
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6, first movement, mm. 1-6
Verdi, Otello, Act IV, mm. 7-18

Early Uses of the Double Bass
During the Baroque and Classical periods and up to Beethoven, the double bass
traditionally doubled the cello for most or all of a composition. Independent
bass parts appear rarely in purely orchestral literature during this time, al­
though one may find a few instances in opera scores. When composers desired
lighter bass lines, they would simply write senza basso in the cello part, and
when they wanted the double basses to resume playing, the phrase + basso was
inserted in the score.

Multiple Stops
The use of double, triple, or quadruple stops for the double bass is risky—par­
ticularly in terms of intonation—and should be avoided in orchestral writing,
unless one or more of the desired pitches are open strings. Because of the closer
proximity of the notes in the upper positions, double stops are more feasible, al­
though divisi instructions should also be given to facilitate the playing of these
orchestral bass parts. Despite the plethora of exceptions to this rule, the great
difficulty in getting double stops (without open strings) in tune, as well as the
thick, muddy sound of close double stops (seconds, thirds) in any lower register
should preclude writing multiple stops on the bass, unless such sounds are de­
sired as special effects.

Harmonics
As has been said above, only natural harmonics should be asked of the bass
player. Here is a list of the simplest harmonics on the G string. The same har­
monics can be played on all other strings—transposed, of course.
exam ple

3 - 7 3 . Natural Harmonics
SulG

S u lG

-f f f Г Гее^

Written
middle of string tow ard the bridge
Sounding

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E

middle of string toward the nut

f iii
FOR S TU D Y

Ravel, L'Enfant et les sortileges, at [T] to 1 m. before [з]

IN D IV ID U A L B O W E D S T R I N G IN S T R U M E N T S

Bowing
Bass players can use all the types of bowing discussed in Chapter 2, including
coloristic effects. Since the bow used by double-bass players is thicker, heavier,
and quite a bit shorter than that of the violin or even the cello, the best way to
have bass players slur long passages or play lengthy tenutos is to ask the players
to change the bow at will.

The С Attachment
In most orchestras today, at least two or three members of the double bass sec­
tion have instruments with a С attachment, a device that permits all chromatic
notes from the E string to the С below to be played. If these notes are requested
and there are no instruments in the section with the attachment, the section will
automatically play the notes an octave higher. The attachment was originally in­
stalled so that all the doubled cello passages could be performed an octave
lower than written without necessitating switching octaves in the middle of the
passage when the cello went down to its low С string. There are even instances
(in Respighi's Pines of Rome and Berg's Wozzeck) of scordatura requests for low B.

Solo, Concertante, and Divisi Basses
The concerto literature featuring the solo bass is not very extensive, one reason
being the disappointing acoustic carrying power of the solo instrument in a
large hall. There are early concertos by Dragonetti, Bottesini, and Dittersdorf,
and after a hiatus of perhaps two hundred years, twentieth-century works by
Koussevitzky, Zimmermann, Henze, and others. Great double-bass solo artists
have come to prominence in the past few decades and are commissioning com­
posers to write works for them. Amusing works, especially for children, using
the double bass recently have been written by Jon Deak, a principal bassist with
the New York Philharmonic.
Solo passages in nineteenth- and early twentieth-century orchestral litera­
ture occur rather infrequently, but concertante and multiple divisi bass parts
abound.
exam ple

3 - 7 4 . Stravinsky, Pulcinella Suite, seventh movement, mm. 1-22

Vivo

sem pre sim .

C D -l/ T R . 7 9
IN D EX t / 0 : 0 0

87

88

T H E STU D Y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

exam ple

C D -1/T R . 7 9
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 3 4

3 -75 . Milhaud, La Creation du monde, 1 m. before О to 1 m. before

Ш

В

a d d itio n a l p a s s a g e s fo r s t u d y

Mahler, Symphony No. 2, second movement, 1 m. before [Tj to 5 mm. after 1Л
Mahler, Symphony No. 1, third movement, mm. 3-10
Persichetti, Symphony for Strings, first movement, mm. 16-20
БаШ-Заёт, Le Camaval des animaux, No. 5, "Elephant"
R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, mm. 8-22 after [~9l
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, mm. 57-66
Verdi, Falstaff, beginning of Act Ш (basses begin alone)

4
plucked

S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

Even though only one of the instruments discussed in this chapter, the harp, is a
regular member of the modem symphony orchestra, the others have been ap­
pearing more and more frequently, especially in smaller orchestral combina­
tions. Every composer or orchestrator should know at least the number and
timings of the strings, the range, manner of performance, and notation for each
of these plucked string instruments.

Ha r p
Arpa (It .); Harpe (Fr .); Harfe (G er.)

The harp has a very long history as a solo and accompanying instrument, being
one of the earliest instruments known to humankind. It has gone through a se­
ries of alterations that have gradually increased its overall size and number of
strings, without changing its basic conceptual framework. The final result is
today's double-action harp, developed
during the late eighteenth and early
nineteenth centuries.
The immediate predecessor of the
double-action harp was the chromatic
harp. This instrument had no pedals
but instead a string for each semitone.
The sheer number of strings presented
a challenge to the performer, and this,
added to its rather poor tone quality
and inability to accommodate a dia­
tonic or chordal glissando, led to the
development of the double-action
harp. The pedals on a double-action
harp, which can be placed in three dif­
ferent positions (up, middle, down),
allow all manner of tunings and new
ways of playing.

89

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Tuning and Range
The double-action harp has forty-seven strings, encompassing six full octaves
and six additional notes.* With all its pedals up the harp is tuned to Cl» major. Its
range is:
exam ple

4- i . Range
8— 1

The top of each of the forty-seven strings is attached to a tuning peg and the
bottom to a pedal, which when put in its lowest position (that is, down) can
raise each note one whole step. The three positions of the pedal perform the fol­
lowing functions:
1. Pedals all the way up give the original C!> major scale.
2. Pedals one notch down (middle) raise all the notes one half step, to
C -D -E-F-G -A -B, and so on.
3. Pedals two notches down raise all the notes a whole step, to
Cf-Dt-Et-Ff-Gl-At-B#, and so on.
All С strings, for example, or all G strings, to take another example, are con­
trolled by one pedal each, so that if the Cl> is depressed one notch, the entire se­
ries of Cl> strings (a total of six strings) becomes a C*i series* Therefore, one
cannot play a Cl>in one octave with a Ct in another, a fact that has been too often
overlooked or misunderstood by some orchestrators and composers. Thus, one
has to think creatively in writing for the harp. The composer or orchestrator
could write the Ct as a B1)so that Cl>and C^ can be played on separate strings and
therefore controlled by two different pedals.
The lowest twelve strings of the harp are made of steel core wound with
wire; the rest of the strings are made of gut wound with wire. Each С string is
red and each G string is blue. Tuning a harp is a tedious task, so the harpist is
usually on stage or in the pit preparing the instrument long before the rest of the
orchestra players arrive. The harpist uses a key to turn—that is, tune—the pegs
at the top of the harp around which the strings are wound. As with all string in­
struments, the pitch of the strings needs frequent adjustment.

* I'he pitches C, D, and E are repeated at the very bottom of the range while F and G are re­
peated only at the top of the harp's range.
+The two lowest strings, D1and C1, are not affected by the pedal mechanism and have to be
tuned manually. The same was true of the uppermost G7 until about five years ago; it is now
controlled by the G pedal that controls all other Gs. Consequently, the lowest D and C, and pos­
sibly the highest G, could require manual retiming if a change in pitch is called for during the
performance of a work. Before the piece is performed, the harpist usually tunes these pitches to
the first pitch that is required. All other strings, however, do change pitches automatically
when their pedals are manipulated.

P l u c k e d S t r in g In s t r u m e n t s

Arrangement of the Pedals

COROM
C D -I
PED A L SE T U P

The pedals are arranged from left to right as follows:
DCB/EFGA
D, C, and В are operated by the left foot and E, F, G, and A by the right foot. It is
important to memorize the arrangement of the pedals on a harp, as well as which
foot operates which pedal, in order to avoid requesting a simultaneous change of
two pedals operated by the same foot*—for instance, asking the harpist to
change the E and G pedals at the same time. However, pedals operated by differ­
ent feet, such as the D and G pedals, can be changed simultaneously.
Just before the beginning of a passage, it is best to indicate to the harpist
how the pedals should be set. This can be done in one of three ways, listed
below; the first two are preferred by harpists.
1. By letter representation:
Dt C# Bt / ЕЦFt G# Al
2. By graphic representation that gives the three degrees, or notches, of the
harp pedaling mechanism, the top being the "all-flats" one. (The graphic
representation is given in a score without the string names, which are in­
cluded here in parentheses simply to highlight the altered pitches.)
(I»
__L_

(Bt)
I

(E^)(FV)

(C«)
(GlXAl)
3. By alternate letter representation, which gives the setting for the first pedal
first, then second pedal, and so on, on each side. The pedals in this version
are numbered from the inside out, so that E is number 1 on the right-hand
side, В number 1 on the left. This third setting is not as common (or as dear)
as the first two.
E1!Ft Gf At
Bl>Ct Dt
The setting given in the above examples is the one actually used for the fa­
mous glissando at the beginning of Debussy's Prelude a ".L'apres-midi d'un
faune." Here, the harp produces only four pitches, Bl>, Ft, Dt, and At, since the
strings are timed enharmonically (At - Bt, Ci = Di>, E1! = I, Gt = At,):
e x a m p l e 4 -2 . Debussy, Prelude &"L'apres-midi d'un faune," m. 4

Tres modere

*It may help to memorize a little ditty, taught to me by my first orchestration teacher. It has
stuck with me and enabled me to remember the sequence of the harp pedals with no difficulty.
Did Columbus Bring / Enough Food Going [to] .America?

CD-1/TR. 80

91

T he Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

The same pedal setting could also be used for a passage such as this:
exam ple

4-3. Harp Pedal Setting

Enharmonic spellings may be necessary for passages or chords that call, for
instance, for both F and F l . In this case either the F would be spelled Ei or the Fl
spelled Gk
exam ple

4 - 4 . Enharmonic Spellings for Pedal Settings

Incorrect

Correct

There are many such examples of "strange," but on closer inspection practi­
cal, harp pedalings.
Usually the harpist changes the pedal a split second before playing the note,
for instance:
exam ple

4 - s . Changing a Harp Pedal

И-Pi

Some experienced harpists will make the pedal change even later than marked
above. The composer's or orchestrator7s main concern is that the tempo will per­
mit time for the changes. Highly chromatic music must be carefully handled;
studying the orchestral works of composers like Debussy, Ravel, and Stravinsky
and the solo works of the great harpists like Salzedo and Grandjany can offer
many clues about writing idiomatically for the harp. Harpists are quite willing
to try out new ideas as long as the composer has a well-grounded understand­
ing of the instrument's basic constraints.

Tone Color
The tone color of the harp is somber, dark, and sonorous in the lower two oc­
taves, and lightens progressively farther up the range. The middle two octaves
are very rich and warm, while the top two octaves and a half are tight and clear.
This upper portion does not have a great dynamic range, sustaining power, or
carrying potential; the fortissimo at the top of the range is like a mezzo forte in the
middle. Because the string is longest when it is in flat position, the flat keys have
more sound potential, but a good harpist can make any tonality sound well by
the power in his or her hands plucking the strings.

P l u c k e d S t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

93

Harp Notation
Music for harp is notated on two staves, like music for piano, using bass and
treble clefs (note the tuning diagram given just above the score).
exam ple

4 -6 . Mozart, Concerto for Flute and Harp, K. 299, first movement,

C D -1/ T R . 8 1

mm. 44-54

Allegro

There is at least one instance in which the notation is not followed literally
by the harpist: the famous harp cadenza from Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker ballet.
Example 4-7a gives the notation as it is found in every orchestral score, Example
4-7b as most harpists actually perform it. The story goes that the harpist who
performed this cadenza at the premiere, with the composer conducting, sug­
gested this revised performance style, which every harpist from that time on
has used; but Tchaikovsky never changed the score to reflect the custom.
exam ple

4 -7 . Tchaikovsky, The Nutcracker, "Waltz of the Rowers," mm. 16-33

a. P R I N T E D S C O R E
I i 1 |I i I I

16

Cadenza ad libitum

C D -RO M
C D -I
H A R P TE C H N IQ U E

C D -1/T R . 8 2

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Chords
Chords may be arpeggiated or played in block fashion. Since the harpist uses
only the first four fingers of each hand to play (the little finger is never used), an
eight-note chord is the maximum for the harp. Three- and four-note chords (per
hand) can most effectively achieve a very full sonority. The distance in an octave
is much smaller than it is on the piano; for that reason tenths are quite simple to
reach. Here is a passage that sounds well on the harp, with the chords spaced in
an idiomatic way:

P l u c k e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

C D -1/ T R . 8 3

Traditionally, all chords are rolled unless a bracket ([) precedes the chord,
indicating it is to be played unbroken or "flat." Particularly in slow passages, a
composer will often place a wavy line ( I ) before a chord, which directs the
harpist to perform the arpeggio rather slowly and with greater expression. Just
as in string chordal pizzicatos, one can indicate the direction of the arpeggio
using the symbols i and I . If there are no arrowheads on the wavy lines,
harpists wiH roll the chord from the bottom up.
Here are two chordal passages that are notated as if the chords are to be
played unbroken, but both are played at least slightly arpeggiated. Since the
tempo of the first example is fast, most harpists perform the passage with a fast
roll on each chord.
e x a m p l e

l

л-9. Bartok, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 1-13

Allegro non troppo

Harp

The block chords in the beautiful passage that ends the first movement of
Brahms's German Requiem (mm. 152-153) are traditionally arpeggiated, even
though there is no indication to do so; playing the chords flat would be too
abrupt.

C D -l/ T R . 8 4

95

96

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -l/ T R . 8 5

e x a m p l e 4 -Ю . Brahms, Ein deutsches Requiem, first movement, mm 150-158
(harp only recorded)

P l u c k e d S t r in g

in s t r u m e n t s

The following excerpt from Debussy's Prelude a "L'apres-midi d'urt faune" ef­
fectively combines arpeggiated harp with flute:
e x a m p l e 4- 1 1 . Debussy, Prelude a ".L'apres-midi d'un faune/' mm. 79-81
( M .M . j
70

=

M o u v t d u

8 4 )
D e b u t

doux et expresxif

_________________________

C D-1 ATR. 8 6

97

98

th e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

CD-RO M
C D -I
H A RP H ARM ONICS

Harmonics
Harp harmonics, which sound beautifully bell-like, are produced in two ways,
both sounding an octave higher than the pitch of the string when played in nor­
mal fashion:
1. The player touches the center of the string (at the node) with the lower por­
tion of the left palm and plucks the string with the left thumb.
2. The player touches the center of the string (at the node) with the outside of
the knuckle of the right index finger and plucks the string with the right
thumb.
The right hand can play only single harmonics; the left hand can play two or
three harmonics at a time (as multiple stops), but the pitches have to be all
sharp, all flat, or all natural.
Harmonics are usually notated with a zero over the note and sound an oc­
tave higher than written, as in Examples 4-12, 4-13, and 4-14. Some composers
write the note at sounding pitch and put a circle over it. This can be confusing
unless the particular method used is explained somewhere in the score.
For best results in employing harp harmonics, two factors should be kept in
mind:
1. Harp harmonics are very soft and to be heard must be accompanied by a
very light orchestration or played solo.
2. The most practical range for harp harmonics is between A2 ( У u ) and F5
( ^ 1 ) . Above and below these pitches the harmonics are too difficult to
produce and therefore not always reliable.

C D -1/ T R . 8 7

C D -1 /TR. 8 8

exam ple

4-12 Debussy, Nocturnes, "Nuages," mm. 74-78

exam ple

4 - 1 3 . Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, symphonic fragments, "Nocturne," mm.

49-53
Modere

Harp 1

P l u c k e d S t r in g In s t r u m e n t s
exam ple

4 - 1 4 . Salzedo, Modem Studies, "On Doubled Notes," beginning

99

C D -l/ T R - 8 9

Special Effects
The harp can be used as a melodic, an accompanying, and a doubling instru­
ment with great success. In addition, several special color effects are used quite
often in orchestral literature.

Pres de la table (Fr.)

CD-ROM

C D -I

The harpist plucks the string near the soundboard to give a hard, brittle, al­
most metallic sound.
example

4 - i s . Britten, Four Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes, "Storm," mm.

РЯЕ&

DE L A TA B LE

CD-l/TR. 9 0

1 12-116

Harp

D major

Pr£s de la table

Sons etouffes (Fr.)
Each note is dampened as soon as it is plucked. The effect is that of a secco
pizzicato on strings. The passage must be slow enough to allow enough time for
the entire hand to dampen the string or strings. To create an even more metallic
effect, the strings may be plucked with the fingernail.
exam ple

4 -1 6 .

Sons etouffes

Sons 6touffes

Glissando
Perhaps the best-known harp sound is glissando, which should not be
overused for the sake of "showing off" the harp. Whenever a glissando is writ­
ten, one must specify how the harp is to be timed, and give the starting pitch as
well as the ending one.

CD-RO M

CD-I

S O N S tT O U F F tS

C D -l/ T R . 9 1

100

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

CD-1ATR. 9 2
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

e x a m p l e

4 -1 7 .

Glissandi

C lW E F l G i A l B

C D -1/T R . 9 2
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 3

e x a m p l e

д-is. Multiple Glissandi

See also Example 4-2.

CD-ROM
C D -I
B IS B IG L IA N D O

Trills, Tremolos, and Bisbigliando (It.)
Trills can be produced in three ways:
1. By two fingers of one hand (this cannot be done at great speed)
2. By alternating hands plucking the same string (not always easy to execute or
to make even)
3. By tuning two different strings to sound the same pitch and then trilling
with the two hands in alternation.
The last method is the most effective and the one harpists use most frequently.
EXA M PLE 4 -1 9 .

Trills

a.

b.

A normal tremolo can be executed by alternating two hands on the strings.
Another type of tremolo unique to the harp, called bisbigliando ("whispering"), is
played very softly and creates a special rustling effect.
C D -1/TR. 9 3

e x a m p l e

4 -2 0 .

Bisbigliando

Bisbigliando

Today, composers have devised many other harp effects for which standard no­
tation is still evolving (see K. Stone, Music Notation in the Twentieth Century,
[New York: W. W. Norton, 1980], pp. 228-256). Some of these are:

P l u c k e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

1. Knocking on the soundboard
2. Plucking the strings with the fingernails
3. Using a plectrum or pick to pluck the strings
4. Playing harmonics other than the octave harmonic
5. Buzzing the string by first plucking it and then changing its pedal up or
down
All these effects, and many more, can be achieved on the harp. The composer or
orchestrator should strive to make his or her musical intentions clear in the no­
tation, and when doubtful about the feasibility of any unusual technique,
should consult a professional harpist.
К

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Dukas, L'Apprenti sorcier (harp harmonics at opening)
Falla, The Three-Cornered Hat,\7] to [lO] (prominent harp)
L. Foss, Symphony No. 3, "Elegy," beginning (string buzzing on the harp)
Ginastera, Harp Concerto
Henze, Harp Concerto
Hindemith, Concerto for Woodwinds, Harp, and Orchestra, [D] to [E] (woodwinds
and harp)
Ravel, Introduction and Allegro, 10 measures after [T7] (cadenza with harmonics,
glissandi, and so forth)
Stravinsky, The Firebird ballet (1919 version), "Berceuse," mm. 1-16 (harp
harmonics)
Varese, Amiriques, at [T] (striking the soundboard)
E. Zwilich, Symbolon,
through

[8]

[Тз]

Study also the many exceptional harp passages in Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker,
which culminate in the "Pas de deux" of Act II (at [l4]) with a most effective
passage for two harps.

G uitar
Chitarra (It.); Guitare (Fr.); Guitarre (Ger.)
! - '. т ч ц | я ш

] Я в а м к

101

102

TH E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

The guitar has enjoyed an amazing renaissance. Since folk music, jazz, and rock
have become so popular, everyone seems to be playing the guitar. There are many
types of guitar Spanish, Hawaiian, electric, and acoustic, to name but a few. We
shall limit our discussion to the classical guitar, since it is the one used in an or­
chestra, whenever a guitar is asked for—unless the composer specifies otherwise.
The tuning of the guitar stems from the old lute tunings and is irregular in
that it does not maintain the same intervals between each of the six strings:
e x a m p l e 4-21. Tuning

e x a m p l e 4 -22 . Range (all pitches sound an octave lower than notated)

Ш XJ

^

Single-line melodies, chords, and melodies with accompaniments are all
possible on the classical or acoustic guitar, which is fingered with four fingers of
the left hand and plucked with all five fingers of the right hand. A fretted finger­
board makes it easier to locate pitches. Harmonics, especially natural harmonics,
are very effective, but one must keep in mind that a nonamplified guitar is quite
soft, and harmonics may be almost inaudible. Therefore, harmonics are best
used in solos or in very small combinations of softer strings and winds, or with
voice. There are guitar parts in Rossini's Barber of Seville, Weber's Oberon,
Thomson's The Plow That Broke the Plains (which also has a banjo part), Boulez's
Le Marteau sans maitre, Penderecki's Devils of Loudon (bass guitar), and others.
C D -1/TR. 9 4

exam ple

4 - 2 3 . Stravinsky, Tango, m m . 1-6

Tempo di Tango

1

Bs. Cl.*

non stacc.

Guitar*

*sounds as written.

P l u c k e d s t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

■'

ad d itio n a l p a s s a g e s fo r st u d y

Berg, Wozzeck, Act П, Waltz, at 14811
J. Corigliano, Troubadours Variations for Guitar and Chamber Orchestra
M. Gould, Pop's Serenade (guitar played throughout)
P. Grainger, Willow Willozo (extensive guitar part)
J. Harbison, Guitar Concerto
J. A. Lennon, Concerto for Guitar and Orchestra
P. Maxwell Davies, The Blind Fiddler (guitar prominent throughout)
Rossini, The Barber of Seville, Act I, "Introduzione" (cavatina features guitar)
Schoenberg, Serenade (guitar prominent throughout)
Stravinsky, Tango (guitar prominent throughout)
T. Takemitsu, To the Edge of Dream (guitar prominent throughout)
Webern, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 10, Nos. 3 and 5

Ma n d o l i n
Mandoline (I t .); Mandoline (F r . and G er .)
The mandolin has eight strings tuned in pairs, pitched like the strings of a
violin.
exam ple

4 - 2 4 . Tuning

Strings 1 2

3 4

5 6

& ^

+jr i p

7 8

103

104

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n
e x a m p l e 4 -2 5 . Range

XX

Single notes and double stops are plucked
with a pick or plectrum; sustained notes are
effected by playing tremolo in one of two
ways: either playing the same note on two
like strings, or playing two unlike notes on
neighboring strings. The fingerboard is fret­
ted to facilitate finding the notes.
This instrument appeared occasionally
in orchestral and operatic scores to Gretry
and Mozart's day. Classical composers fa­
vored it as an accompaniment to serenades.
It then disappeared, to resurface in late
Verdi (Otello), Mahler (Symphony Mo. 7),
Schoenberg (.Serenade), Respighi (Feste romane), Stravinsky (Agon), Crumb (Ancient
Voices of Children), and other works. It is a
quiet instrument, best used solo or lightly
accompanied by muted strings or soft
winds.

4 - 2 6 . Mozart, Don Giovanni, Act П, "Deh vieni alia finestra," mm .
1-10 (voice part not recorded)

exam ple

C D -1/T R . 9 5

Allegretto
Vln. 1

van. 2

Via.

Mandolin

*

и

pizz.

Deh

P l u c k e d S t r i n g In s t r u m e n t s

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

GIOVANNI

exam ple

4 - 2 7 . Crumb, Echoes of Time and the River, fourth m ovem ent, mm. 8-9

delicate, fragile
Mandolin
offstage

Piano 1

(sempre)

(senza trem.)

C D -I /TR. 9 6

105

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
Respighi, Feste romane, third movement, at [24]
Schoenberg, Serenade, Op. 24 (throughout)
Schoenberg, Variations for Orchestra, Op. 31, m. 420 to end
Stravinsky, The Nightingale (throughout)
Webern, Das Augenlicht, mm. 8-9, 39-42
Webern, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 10, Nos. 3, 4, and 5

B a n jo
The banjo originated in West Africa and
was introduced into this country by black
slaves. Thomas Jefferson wrote that the
Africans brought along an instrument they
called "banger." (In Senegal the lute is still
called "banio.") Jefferson himself referred
to this instrument as the "banjar." The early
banjo was a crude instrument and was not
really perfected until 1847, during the ca­
reer of the first professional banjo player,
Joe Sweeney.

At that time the banjo was very much as it is today, a body like an enclosed
tambourine with a long neck, and the bridge mounted on a parchment head. It
is played either with or without a plectrum or pick. The five-string banjo used in
bluegrass music and minstrel bands is tuned:
EXA M PLE 4 -2 8 .

Tuning

either tuning

exam ple

4 - 2 9 . Range*

"The tenor banjo sounds an octave lower than written.

plu cked

S t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

The range of each string is a major 9th above the fundamental tuning; for in­
stance, one could play Es on the D string.
The high G, called the thumb string, is a short string connected to an outside
peg- It is used for drones and similar effects. All other strings are fretted, mak­
ing it easy to find the pitches. Some banjos have only four strings; others have
five or more regular-length strings that are often tuned quite differently from
the five-string tuning above. For some pieces the banjo is tuned like the guitar;
because guitar players were often asked to double on the mandolin as well as
the banjo in the theater orchestras and jazz bands of the 1920s and early 1930s,
these instruments were and still are tuned pretty much alike. Currently, there
has been no great movement to include the banjo as part of the orchestra, except
in theater orchestras and imitations of bluegrass music.
Here is a sample of what typical banjo music looks like. In this excerpt, the
banjo is hardly heard over the horns:
e x a m p l e 4 - 3 0 . Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue, [28l-[29|

CD-1ATR. 9 7

FH n. 1 , 2

Sax. 1
В Alt.
Sax. 2
BVTfen.
Sax. 3
EVAlt.

Banjo

FHn. 1,2

Sax. 1
EVAlt.
Sax. 2
BiTbn.
Sax. 3
В Alt.

Banjo

J

107

th e

S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Щ ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
J. A. Carpenter, Skyscrapers (throughout)
Delius, "La Calinda" from Koahga (opera)
Gershwin, Suite from Porgy and Bess
M. Gould, Foster Gallery Suite (throughout)
J. Harbison, The Great Gatsby (throughout))
Krenek, Kleine Symphonic, Op. 51 (throughout)
Thomson, The Plow That Broke the Plains (throughout)
Weill, Mahagonny (throughout)
W. Zinn, Symphony in Ragtime (throughout)

Z ith er
Cythare (It. and F r .); Zither (Ger.)

The zither is an ancient instrument mostly used today for special coloristic ef­
fects (as can be heard in the main theme from the movie The Third Man). Since it
was widely played by folk musicians in southern Germany and Austria, com­
posers like Johann Strauss in Tales from the Vienna Woods used it to evoke the lo­
cale. Not until the latter part of the nineteenth century was a practical modem
version of the instrument perfected.

P l u c k e d S t r in g in s t r u m e n t s

The zither has five melody strings on which the upper line of the notation is
performed by the left hand. These strings are tuned in one of two ways:
EXAMPLE 4-31 . Melody Strings

' фйр FT
The accompaniment is played with the right hand on twenty-four accompa­
niment and bass strings tuned in the following manner.
e x a m p l e 4-3 2 . Accompaniment Strings

exam ple

4 - 3 3 . Bass Strings

All accompaniment and bass strings sound an octave lower than written. All the
zither strings may be retuned at the composer's discretion. The tunings given
above are the most usual ones.
The instrument lies on a table or stand. The left hand fingers the melody
while the right thumb, wearing a plectrum or pick, plucks the strings. The ac­
companiment is performed by the other four fingers of the right hand, which
pluck the accompaniment and bass strings.
exam ple

4-34. J. Strauss, Tales from the Vienna Woods, mm. 75-93

C D -1/T R . 9 8

109

110

th e

S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

m
U

=

m

m

M - H = f=
=—
J 4 u

у

= H

^ -

r J r J

2■" = 4H
= ] * I
- .4—

P

^

— j — 1—

w

l T

M

^

=t—

J -p

i—

J J

f c j --------

^ -----------

ff' ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

L. Foss, American Landscapes (guitar concerto), beginning duet (harp and solo
guitar)
S. Gubaidulina, From the Book of Hours (zither, electric guitar, guitar)
M. Torke, Adjustable Wrench (electric guitar)
Webern, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 10 (mandolin, guitar, harp)

PRA CTICE
IN

for

Str in g s

The string section has been the chief lyric-harmonic element in the orchestra for
much of the past two hundred fifty years. This section, which has evolved into
five distinct voices, is able to sustain major musical ideas either as a choir within
the full orchestral texture or in works for strings alone. It has been said that the
listener never tires of the varied sounds and timbres that strings can produce.
This depends, of course, on how this very versatile choir is used, and we shall
try to study its potential in a variety of situations in this chapter.

IN D IV ID U A LITY W ITH IN T H E E N S E M B L E
Even though it is not the province of this book to discuss the history and tech­
nique of string quartet and quintet writing, it is important to call attention to
the great and influential quartets of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven, for the
experiments within these pieces of chamber music had far-reaching effects on
the successful establishment of a five-part string choir, the forebear of the
virtuosic string ensemble we find in today's orchestra. Here are some of the
results:
1. the emancipation of the second violin, viola, and cello so that they become
equal partners with the first violin;
2. the use of voice crossings for special effects;
3. the use of particular registers on all instruments for coloristic as well as
structural purposes;
4. the extension of the range on all instruments.
To illustrate these points, we will study twelve measures from the second
movement of a late Haydn string quartet, the Emperor quartet, Op. 76, No. 3.
Even though this chamber piece is written for four solo players, we can easily
apply the principles it illustrates to the string orchestra and, by extension, to the
string choir in a symphony orchestra. This work does not, of course, include the
double bass, but that instrument will also enter into our discussion. The second
movement has the famous German national anthem as its theme, which is then
used in some of the variations.

Ill

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

th e

S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3 ("Emperor"), Second
Movement, Theme

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

112

The theme is presented in a simple textural setting with straightforward har­
mony. Notice the dual rhythmic coupling of the two violins playing the melodic
material and of the viola and cello providing the harmonic background. The
faultless voice leading used in this excerpt gives emphasis to and expertly sup­
ports the exposition of the melody.
C D -2/T R. 1

5- i . Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement, mm.

exam ple

1-12
Poco adagio cantabile

Variation I
The series of variations that follow demonstrate Haydn's regard for each of the
four members of the ensemble as equal partners. In the first variation, the sec­
ond violin presents the theme while the first plays harmonically based counter­
point against it.

Vat I

5 - 2 . Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement.

pr actice
in

e x a m p le

Variation I

113

o r ch estr atio n

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Variation II

ORCHESTRATION

IN P R A C T I C E

114

In the second variation, the theme is given to the cello. Notice how the cello
rises above the viola and, for a moment, even above the lower note of the sec­
ond violin in measures 10-11. Haydn undoubtedly wished to feature the richer,
more intense quality of the cello in that register; had the melody been assigned
to the second violin, it would fall in the violin's weakest register. Thus, the sec­
ond violin has merely an accompanying role, coupling the cello part a 3rd
higher. Notice also that the viola is used as a pedal instrument, emphasizing
mostly the tonic and dominant notes to fill out and clarify the harmony.
CD -2/TR. 3

Var. П

e x a m p l e 5-3. Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement,
Variation II

fo r

S t r in g s

ORCHESTRATION

Variation III
In Variation Ш, the melody is assigned to the viola, and Haydn places it above
the two violins. Notice how glorious the viola sounds as a melody instrument.
We can see that Haydn does not place dynamics at the beginning of each varia­
tion except the first, where the direction is sempre piano; instead, he relies en­
tirely on the registers of the instruments and his scoring to achieve the correct
dynamics. But more than this, he uses his skills to ensure that the desired voice
dominates and the others support. In this variation we also find the cello taking
on a supporting role, in the form of an involved contrapuntal countermelody,
rather than simply providing a bass.
exam ple

5 -4. Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement,

Variation III
Var. Ш

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.

61

115

IN P R A C T I C E

s c o r in g

C D -2/T R. 4

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Variation IV

IN

PR ACl ICE

116

ORCHESTRATION

The final variation is a variant of the first statement of the theme (see Example
5-1). The composer refrained from using the octave transposition of the theme
until these last moments in the movement—and how fresh it sounds here, how
climactic! Too often the extremes of range are wasted too early in a work, and as
a result the final buildup is anticlimactic. One can see that the entire formal
structure is an accumulation of the elements that in the course of the variations
have slowly been introduced into the harmonic and contrapuntal scheme and
become a natural part of the statement. The pedal point in the cello gives the
feeling of resolution and ending.
c d - 2 / tr. s

e x a m p l e 5-5. Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement,
Variation IV

The Double Bass in the Classical Orchestra
In the music of Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert, it is usual for the bass
to double the cello in most passages, especially in the tutti sections. When a
lighter string texture was desired, the double bass was eliminated. Independent
double-bass parts became increasingly popular during the nineteenth century,
as the cello took on the role of tenor voice of the strings. If Haydn had used a
string orchestra with double bass for this piece, in the fourth variation he proba­
bly would have doubled the cello (an octave below) from the anacrusis through
the first three and a half measures. He would then have dropped it until the
dominant pedal in measures 8-12, bringing it back at the cadence of measures
15-16 and again at the end:

2

c d - / tr.

6

PRA CTICE

117

IN

e x a m p l e 5 - 6 . Haydn, String Quartet Op. 76, No. 3, second movement,
Variation IV with added bass

S t r in g s

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g f o r

PRA CTIC E

t h e s t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

118

F o r e g r o u n d — Mi d d l e g r o u n d —
Background
All kinds of musical textures have been composed for the string orchestra: ho­
mophonic, contrapuntal, melodic, as well as melody plus accompaniment. In
this book we will use three terms to denote the distribution of material in an en­
semble situation:
1. foreground: the most important voice, usually the melody, which the com­
poser wants to be heard most prominently;
2. middleground: countermelodies or important contrapuntal material;
3. background: accompaniment, either chordal or using polyphonic or melodic
figures.
The composer's skill can be measured by the way he or she orchestrates
these three elements. As we saw in the previous examples, Haydn handled
them so well that he did not even have to rely on dynamic markings to achieve
balance among the three elements.

Handling of Foreground Material
The composer must consider each of the elements—particularly the foreground
line—with regard to its tonal compass and the desired emotional intensity. If
the principal idea is to be scored for strings, the ranges and registers characteris­
tic of each of its five instruments must be considered. After these decisions have
been made, the scoring of the main theme, idea, or gesture will then provide
clues for the scoring of the middleground and background material.
A successful realization of this procedure can be found in the opening of the
slow movement of Brahms's Symphony No. 3:

PRA C TICE
IN
I RATI ON
ORCHES

e x a m p l e 5-7. Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement, mm. 1-14 (strings
only recorded)

PRA CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

120

Brahms chooses the cello to present the beautiful theme {foreground), which is
surrounded by the remaining strings (background). Let us for a moment specu­
late on how the composer came to this decision by rescoring the excerpt in dif­
ferent ways.

Using the First Violin to Present the Melody
C D -2/TR. a

e x a m p l e s -в. Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement, mm. 1-8 (melody in
first violin)

Poco allegretto

PRA CTICE
ORCHESTRATION

IN

5

As shown in Example 5-8, the first violin, in this register, is relatively weak
and lacks great emotional force. If the melody were scored an octave higher, the
next statement of the theme would be anticlimactic and subsequent restate­
ments that are scored an octave higher anticipated. (See pp. 116 for a similar sit­
uation in the Haydn example.)

Using the Second Violin to Present the Melody
example

5-9. Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement (melody in second

violin)
Poco allegretto

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

If the second violin were to play the theme on the G string (as in Example
5-9), the result would be intense, but of a much darker hue than the upper
strings of the cello produce.

ORCHESTRATION

!N

PRA CTIC E

122

Using the Viola to Present the Melody
2

c d - / tr.

10

E X A M P L E s -1 o. Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement (melody in viola)

Poco allegretto

As shown in Example 5-10, the viola sound in this register is quite bland
and, though mellow, lacks intensity and richness.

Using the Double Bass to Present the Melody
The double bass is an unlikely choice because, at pitch, it could only make a
caricature of the melody, as shown in Example 5-11; in a lower register it does
not have enough expressive quality to carry the tune. Starting in the later nine­
teenth century, solo bass passages or section solos were used for lugubrious or
humorous effects.

Poco allegretto

Brahms's use of the cellos in their lyrical and intense register (see Example 5-7)
to play the melody gives the other strings an opportunity to play the soft, rapid,
triplet accompaniment (background), and allows the composer to build up to a
higher pitch level in the violin's statement of the theme. This second statement,
though fuller and more heavily scored (last three measures of Example 5-7),
sounds much less tense than the original. Certainly Brahms could have initially
stated the theme in the violins and followed it with the cellos, but it is the stun­
ning and vibrant effect of the cellos at the opening of the movement that cap­
tures the listener's attention and makes the opening so engaging.

Distribution of Background Material
Before we leave the Brahms example, let us look at the distribution of the
background material. Many professional orchestrators recommend staying
away from the register of the melody line. In many instances, especially when

c d - 2/ t r . 1 1
----------------------

PRA CTICE
IN

e x a m p l e 5- 1 1 . Brahms, Symphony No. 3, third movement (melody in double

bass)

123

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

124

t h e s tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

foreground and background are played by instruments of similar color, this
is good advice. But in this case, we must take register characteristics into
consideration:
1. The foreground line is in the best register of the instrument to which it was
assigned.
2. The background figures are in the palest or most nondescript registers of the
instruments to which these were given, and the double-bass pizzicatos
lessen the aural impact of the bass line.
If the violins and violas had been scored an octave higher, they would have
attracted too much attention to the background part; they would also have an­
ticipated the higher pitch level that the violins use for the melody after the cel­
los' initial statement. Instead, Brahms saves the higher violin registral color for
the more important foreground statement and assigns the soft swirling back­
ground to middle-register violins and violas as the cellos dominate in their best
voice.
Another important aspect to consider is the character or figuration of the ac­
companiment itself. Notice the radical rhythmic and expressive difference be­
tween the foreground and the background elements. The repetitiousness of the
swirling accompaniment serves to add intensity to the longer notes of the
melody, leaving the Л figure undisturbed. Some conductors may ask for a
bit of "soloistic rubato" on the anacrusis to create an even freer exposition of the
theme. Notice how the arpeggiation within the background accompaniment is
dovetailed to create an extremely smooth and uninterrupted texture.
It must be mentioned that the flutes and bassoons clarify and support the
arpeggiated harmony, a purpose that will be discussed in Chapter 8, on strings
and winds. In this passage it is certainly another stabilizing and enriching ele­
ment.
This passage embodies many questions the composer must answer before
embarking on scoring for orchestra. There is no doubt that Brahms heard in his
head exactly what he put down and did not have to go through the process of
elimination we employed before deciding to assign the melody to the cellos; his
decision was the result of a long and intimate relationship with the orchestra
and was influenced by his having heard, conducted, and rescored many of his
earlier works. The idea of choice is basic not only to the compositional but also
to the orchestrational process. The more a composer knows about the tonal,
registral, and technical characteristics of the instruments, the more successful
and colorful his or her score.

Successful Statements of Foreground Material
by Other Composers
The following examples further illustrate how orchestration can serve to clarify
the form and content of a work or even a phrase by means of texture, accent, or
color.

ORCHESTRATION

Using Textural and Timbral Changes to Differentiate between
Melodic Statements
Sometimes a forceful unison or octave statement of a theme may be used in
presenting the antecedent of an idea, followed by a change of texture in the con­
sequent that emphasizes its different emotional quality. The following excerpt
by Mozart shows how effective this procedure can be:
e x a m p le

s -1 2 . Mozart, Eine kleine Nachtmusik, first movement, mm. 56-62
Allegro

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Coupling, a term that we have already introduced, describes two instru­
ments playing the same passage at parallel intervals, as in the second violin and
viola parts in mm. 60-62 of Example 5-12. Even though these coupled parts pre­
sent only a slight change of texture and dynamic, the simple accompaniment in
parallel 3rds registers a tremendous emotional contrast to the stark octaves in
this Classical style.
Mozart was a master of sudden mood changes. In the following short exam­
ple, a sudden cessation of the Alberti-type accompaniment figure changes the
mood of the predictable, settled initial statement to a light, ethereal texture that
highlights the second phrase of the theme.

125

[SI P R A C T I C E

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

CD-2/TR. 12

PRA CTICE

The stu d y

2

c d - / tr.

13

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p l e 5 - 1 3 . Mozart, Eme Heine Nachtmusik, second movement, mm. 1-8

ORCHESTRATION

IN

126

In the next example, Haydn sets off the second statement of the theme with a
different texture that incorporates the cellos and basses and uses an Alberti-like
figuration in the second violins. This second statement is heard an octave lower
in the first violins to allow the woodwinds to be heard when they enter as part
of the tutti passage that follows.

Allegro con spirito

PRA CTICE
IN

c d - 2/ t r . 14
----------------------

riDN

e x a m p le 5 - 1 4 . Haydn, Symphony No. 103, first movement, mm. 40-48 (m. 48

not recorded)

127

ORCHESTRA

SCO RIN G F O R ST R IN G S

TH E STU D Y O F ORCH ESTRATION

In the second movement of his Piano Concerto No. 4, Beethoven adopts a
solo/tutti formal scheme, within which he contrasts the rich legato harmonies
of the solo piano with a stark string unison that is played staccato:

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRACTICE;

128

CD-2/TR. 15

e x a m p l e 5 - 15 . Beethoven, Piano Concerto No. 4, second movement, mm. 1-30

PRA CTIC E

129

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

Using String Unisons or Octave Doublings to Create
a More Powerful Melodic Statement
Composers have reinforced melodic material through doublings in a num­
ber of ways. In Beethoven's Leonore Overture No. 3, octaves are added to the ini­
tial melodic line until the dynamic of triple forte is reached.
e x a m p l e 5 - 16. Beethoven, Leonore Overture No. 3, m m . 514-531

Presto

cresc. poco apoco

C D -2/TR. 1 6

m
130

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

In the last movement of his symphony Mathis der Maler, Hindemith begins with
a string unison that builds in dynamic to create great tension, which culminates
in the fortissimo tutti chords that follow:
CD-2/TR. 1 7

e x a m p l e 5 - 17 . Hindemith, Mathis der Maler, third movement, mm. 1-6 (strings

only recorded)

PRA CTIC

131

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r in g f o r s t r i n g s

JT

th e

ORCHESTRATION

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Doubling the first violins with the second violins gives them more body while
they play in a less brilliant register. Keeping the tessitura of the cellos and
basses rather low and giving the violas a contrasting rhythm divisi keeps them
from interfering with the flow of the melody. What a beautiful way to open a
slow movement with strings alone!

IN

PRA C IIC E

132

C D -2/T R . 1 8

example

5 - 1 8 . Schumann, Symphony No. 2, third movement, mm. 1-5

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via. 1

Via. 2

In the second presentation of this sprightly tune (measures 4-6), the first violins,
in their lower register, are doubled by the cellos. This timbral addition creates a
feeling of greater resolution and prepares the listener for the woodwind scalar
passage that follows.
C D -2/T R . 1 9

e x a m p l e 5 - 19 . Shostakovich, Symphony No. 6, third movement, mm. 1-7
(mm. 6-7 not recorded)

133

ORCHE

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

C o n t r a p u n t a l W r it in g

fo r s t r in g s

Two or more melodies superimposed on one another result in a contrapuntal
texture, or so we learn in courses on counterpoint. But in orchestral music there
is a gray area between foreground melodic material, middleground melodic
material, and background melodic material, a factor that can present problems
for the orchestrator or composer. The difficulties are twofold: First, one must
sort out which melodies belong to which of the three categories so that each
melody clearly communicates to the listener whether it is primary, secondary,
or tertiary material. Second, rather than becoming overwhelmed by the vast
array of choices of orchestral color, one must limit one's choices—particularly if
the passage is to be repeated and a different choice is used for the repetition.
As a case in point, we will study the second movement of Beethoven's
Symphony No. 7.

PR A C TIC 1
IN
ORCHESTRATION

134

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Beethoven, Symphony No. 7
Beethoven has the first violins play the very simple tune, the seconds play the
countertheme, and the violas, cellos, and double basses supply the background
harmony. Even though the voices are close together in register and homoge­
neous in sound, this passage works successfully for two reasons:
1. Each of the three parts has its own characteristic rhythm and special articu­
lation.
2. The foreground and middleground themes were introduced earlier without
the background (the first theme was played all by itself at the beginning of
the movement) and were more clearly heard at that time.
example

5-20. Beethoven, Symphony No. 7, second movement, mm. 51-66

The manner in which these factors add clarity to this passage may help sug­
gest ways of solving the sometimes complex problems that involve distinguish­
ing between foreground, middleground, and background material.
Polyphonic writing for strings has been popular since the early Baroque,
when the Italian masters, and later Bach and Handel, firmly established this

1. placing the most important melody in the best possible register of an
instrument;
2. thinning the counterpoint to let the main theme break through;
3. registerally separating theme and countertheme (one high, one low, or vice
versa);
4. making the countertheme sufficiently different rhythmically from the pri­
mary theme that they don't interfere with one another when the two are
stated together.
One can always mark different dynamics such as forte for the foreground
and piano for the background material, but this is not necessarily as effective as
the ways that are listed above.
Here are some contrapuntal passages from both the string orchestra and the full
orchestra literature. Study them carefully.

Vivaldi, Concerto Grosso, Op. 3, No. 11
The piece opens with a typical fugue exposition starting with the basses and
solo cello in unison, then violas, second violins, and finally the first violins—the
traditional sequence of entrances. If Vivaldi had opened with the first violins, he
would have been obliged to reverse the order of entrances exactly. If the second
violins had begun, there would have been a choice of either first violins, then vi­
olas and basses, or violas, first violins, then basses. The first alternative de­
scribed above (Vln. 1, Vln. 2, Via., Vic. + D.B.) was another preferred by the
Baroque masters. Similar schemes (such as Via., Vln 2., Vln. 1, Vic. + D.B., or
Via., Vic. + D.B., Vln. 2, Vln. 1) would be employed if the viola were to begin
the fugue.
It is important to understand that in spite of the string group's homogene­
ity, the subject comes through because of rhythmic differences between its
countersubject (middleground) and continuo or harmony (background). Since
the subject is heard alone at the beginning of a fugal exposition the listener is
able to focus on it. The fugal subject's strong presence is aided by easily recog­
nizable rhythmic figures. In addition, the anacrusis-type opening gives it
added carrying power against the rather active counterpoint in the other
voices.

IN P R A C T I C E

type of instrumental style. Since each of the voices of the string choir is techni­
cally capable of performing gestures that are almost equally elaborate, fugal,
canonic, and other styles of contrapuntal writing can be successfully written for
the string section. Many times the exposition of a fugue or fugato subject is as­
signed to the strings before it is developed, altered, or doubled by other mem­
bers of the orchestra, a compositional method that has proven to be most
effective.
When contrapuntal passages are to be scored for strings alone, two major
points to consider are clarity and balance. These can best be achieved by:

135

ORCHESTRATIO N

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

PRA CTICE

136

IN

c d - 2/ t r . 21
--------- :------------

ORCHESTRATION

The stu d y

41

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

example

35-54

5-21

. Vivaldi, Concerto Grosso, Op. 3, No. 11, first movement, mm.

TICE
PRAC
IN
ORCHESTRATION

Bach, Brandenburg Concerto No. 3
In this magnificent excerpt for six violins, three violas, three cellos, and double
bass, we find very sophisticated contrapuntal writing that illustrates how im­
portant rhythmic characteristics are in bringing forward the individual voices.
During the Baroque era composers used a much narrower instrumental range
than what is employed today; thus, emphasizing individual parts within a basi­
cally homogeneous ensemble was a challenge. Toward the end of Example 5-22
(measures 87-90), Bach brings the work to a rich homophonic climax, which
provides great contrast and fulfillment to the preceding contrapuntal section.
e x a m p le 5 -22 . Bach, Brandenburg Concerto No. 3, first movement, mm. 76 -9 2

Vln. 1

vin. г
Vln.3

Via. 1
Via. 2
Via. 3

Vic. 1

Vic. 3

C D -2/ T R . 2 2

IN P R A C T I C E

138

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

Vln. 1
Vln. 2

Vln. 3
Via. 1
Via. 2
Via. 3

Vic. 1
Vic. 2
Vic. 3
D.B.

Vln. 1
Vln. 2

Vln. 3
Via. 1
Via. 2
Via. 3

Vic. 1
Vic. 2
Vic. 3
D.B.

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

PR A C TIC E
IN

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

Weber, Euryanthe, Overture
Here is another string fugal exposition, this time from the Romantic era. As in
earlier examples, the composer is careful to separate the elements by making
them rhythmically distinct and, like Bach, he alternates freely between contra­
puntal and homophonic passages.
example

5 - 2 3 . Weber, Euryanthe, Overture, mm. 144-159

C D -2/T R . 2 3

IN P R A C T I C E
ORC H ESTR A TIO N

140

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

141

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta
The exposition of this extraordinary fugue by Bartok is more complex than
those in the previous examples. The composer sets up a formula of constantly
moving eighth notes, created by the intersecting lines. The entrances of the
subject are always easily heard, but the counterpoint balances this motion, giv­
ing the impression of a large arch. The imitative writing between the voices—
both free and canonic—adds to the heightening tension, which never really
settles down until the entrance of the timpani in measure 34. The lack of rhyth­
mic definition in each voice, or, to put it more positively, the great similarity in
the lines, creates an atmosphere of unruffled contemplation in the midst of har­
monic tension.
e x a m p l e 5 - 2 4 . Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta, first movement,

3

c d - / tr.

i

mm. 1-34
Andante tranqulllo ( J> = ca. 116-112)

1

IN' P R A C T I C E

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

eonsord.

Vln. 3,4

Via. 1,2

Vln. 3,4

Via. 1,2

Vic. 1,2

PP

O R C H E S TR A TIO N

142

th e

S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

VUl 2 \

fl'r
f!

Vln. 3, 4 I

-

Ц

г

т

т

^

[

L
f T

4 II . J j i j

ff 1

___ ^

'

I ____ L -

Via. 1,2

Vic. 1,2

—
D.B. 1.2

2в
™ sord.
- 9 -B--->
--- ---5--- *----- j---- E-lg--

Vln. 1

——

U m.

«V —Г —г-

ufe**

bpY

p

^

—

-

r : — F F ~ i^

—

Vln. 2^

Vln. 3,4 \

■ V J ftr n J
' %

Via. 1,2

Vic. 1,2

" jj —'~~

^ ----------------- 1 ^
= F ~ ^ = 4S--- K—f ^ 1---- k—1-------- -t----k- « ---£ 4 --- ^44--- - |
K¥
l^ jJ i
*
-------

—1 ~i isq 1----- J~ -

*■+-«— r

- в

lл ^

Г

Г

[j?

T— ’> - H

^ t-,v ' 1T!fr W

?

^ ------------------------ —
OB. 1,2
p

r

I J ir if f it & it j- i

S t r in g s

The distribution of the pitches in a predominantly homophonic passage is an
important assignment. Spacing, register, and melodic considerations are the
major factors in determining exactly who should play which pitches, especially
in string writing, where the overall color is so homogeneous.
Let us first consider the scoring of some isolated chords and then study a
masterful passage from the literature.
We will examine chordal spacing and pitch doubling in terms of how these
might correspond to the overtone series. We give it here starting on E:
exam ple

5 - 2 5 . Overtone Series o n E

A large tutti string chord could be effectively spaced:
e x a m p l e

5-26.

Using the Overtone Series to Space a Chord

Both chords can be played piano or forte. The first would sound a bit darker
than the second because of the lower octave of the basses and the wider spacing
at the top, but the difference is not great. All instruments are assigned a tradi­
tional place in the distribution. Notice that greater space is usually left between
pitches of the lower instruments than between those of the upper instruments—
just as there are greater distances between the more sonorous lower partials
than between the upper partials of the overtone series.
Less spread between chord members gives the composer greater choices. A
progression using closely spaced chords such as the following may be scored in
one of the following ways:
e x a m p l e

J

5-27.

Closely Spaced Chords

i

1. Straightforward scoring—violin I, soprano; violin П, alto; viola, tenor; cello,
bass; double bass, doubling the cello an octave lower. This scoring would re­
sult in a rather nondescript setting if the dynamic was p to mf, but would
prove very bass-heavy if the dynamic was loud, since the violas, cellos, and
basses are in a much better register than the violins.

143

IN

fo r

S t r in g s

ORCHESTRATION

H o m o p h o n ic W r it in g

fo r

PRA CTICE

S c o r in g

C D -3/T R . 2

PRACTI
IN
ORCHESTRATION

144

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

2. Violas divisi take the upper two parts while the cellos divisi take the lower
two. The result of this combination would be a very mellow, darkish sound.
3. Number 2, but adding the bass an octave lower, which would greatly
darken the line.
4. The first violins on the soprano with the second violins or the violas divisi
playing the alto and tenor part would give a slightly lighter but still sub­
dued color to the progression.
5. All cellos, with the basses doubling the bass line at pitch, would, of course,
be very intense.
6. The entire progression could be transposed up one octave, then two octaves,
without using the double bass at all, and become quite sparkling.
If there were a first-inversion chord in Example 5-27, we would have an ad­
ditional doubling problem, since, as we have learned in basic theory courses, it
is not common-practice style to double the bass (the third) except when the
chordal root is scale degree 1 (VI6), 2 (VII6), 4 (П6), or 5 (Ш6). In the often-used I6,
IV6, and V6 chords, special attention should be given to spacing and doubling so
that the bass is not doubled in a four-voice texture; if there are more than four
voices, the third of the chord (its bass) would invariably be doubled somewhere
to strengthen it. In this case, it is advisable to double it near the bottom of the
texture to bring out the "open" sound so characteristic of this inversion, as in
the chords that are marked "good" below. The chords designated "not good"
show that the third of the chord is overdoubled, thereby weakening the firstinversion effect.
example

5 - 2 8 . Doubling in First-Inversion Chords
good

not good

Let us now consider how best to score a string melody within an orchestral
work.
What can be done to strengthen this melody?
example

5- 2 9 . Melody to be Scored

T ^ i ;—I—

,, J)|F П f f
- £ 1 £ -Р -= р = -= ± ± =

1. It can be played by the first violins without accompaniment.
2. It can be played by the second violins and doubled by the first an octave
higher.
3. It can be doubled at the unison by another instrumental combination:
a. violins 1 and 2
b. violins and violas

fo r

S t r in g s

ORCHESTRATION

IN

c. violins and cellos
d. violas and cellos
4. It can be played sul G on the violin.
5. It can be played as a viola or a cello solo, since both instruments would be
more intense in that register than the violins.
6. It could be distributed over four or five octaves and played by all five
strings.
7. It could be performed in unison by all the violins, violas, and cellos.

Tchaikovsky, Serenade for Strings
Now let us examine the beginning of the Serenade for Strings by Tchaikovsky to
see how he handled some of these issues.
e x a m p le 5 -3 0 .

Tchaikovsky, Serenade for Strings, first movement, mm. 1-36

[XI Andante non troppo. (J> = 126)

145

PRA CTICE

S c o r in g

C D -3/ T R . 3

PRA CTICE

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

146

At [A], the theme is presented fully and richly harmonized. The double stops
on all instruments would certainly be playable non divisi, but usually the second
violins, violas, and cellos are divided while the violins are not, since divisi
would weaken the first violin line. Notice that the melody notes of the first vio­
lin are always doubled, either by the first violins themselves or by one of the
other string sections. In measures 1 and 2, the second violin (lower notes) dou­
bles, and in measures 4 and 5 the viola doubles. The composer emphasizes the
harmony rather than the melody in measures 3 and 6 by the phrasing and the
dovetail position of the second violin (that is, its pitches are in between those of
the first violins); the second violins' pitches are in turn reinforced by doublings
in the violas and cellos. Notice the spacing of the very first chord, which creates
an intense but quite bright sound. The chords in measures 7 and 8 are sonorous
but a bit more mellow. The dovetailing of violas and second violins in measure
8 emphasizes the E4, a melody note, which is much stronger played by the vio­
las than it would be if played by the second violins.
In measure 8, a scale in octaves takes us to the second statement of the
melody
this time played in the bass register. Great intensity is created by
the rather high double basses, and the thin texture that accompanies the tune
played f f cannot interfere with it since all violins and violas are in a nonbrilliant
register. The big chord in measure 15 sounds stunning after this pale, subdued
harmony. Notice the distribution of this chord and the ease with which it can be
performed; no problem fingerings are encountered for any instrument. Since

([в]),

TRATION

IN

any double-bass chord like those of the upper strings in this measure would
have to be played divisi, the composer instead has chosen to assign to the instru­
ment a single well-placed tonic note. The low С on the cello is sonorous enough
to carry as the true bass note of the chord.
From [C] to [D] Tchaikovsky achieves a diminuendo by his scoring. From
measures 17 to 22 the close voicing, especially in the high cellos, gives a tense ren­
dition of the theme and harmony. From measure 18 to [d ] the sound is mellow,
and even though it remains rather loud and intense, the homogeneous quality of
the string playing makes the passage sound as if it came from one instrument.
From [D] to the end there is a marked diminuendo, in which a cadential for­
mula is repeated three times. All instruments are in a register where a soft dy­
namic is easily possible, and the thinning out is emphasized by the dropping
out of the bass each time it reaches the tonic note E. Notice the articulation
change in the basses from measure 32 to measure 33. Here the double basses do
not slur but bow the high E. The articulation allows the E to sound a little
longer, and their dropping out in the ensuing measures is thus even more pro­
nounced, since the chords in the other strings are held.

Grieg, Peer Gynt Suite No. 1
Another example of effective strict homophonic writing for strings is the ex­
cerpt from Grieg's Peer Gynt Suite No. 1. Every note is doubled at the octave, as
if the piece were played on the organ with an eight-foot stop and a four-foot
stop doubling the original version an octave higher. In order to articulate
clearly two phrases in each of the four measures, Grieg doubles the strings dif­
ferently in the antecedent and the consequent. For instance, in measures 19-20
and 23-24, the second violins double the first with an added octave instead of
providing more harmony. To study this example more closely, you might wish
to make a simple four-part reduction for piano, and then compare it with the
original orchestration.
exa m ple

5 - 3 i . Grieg, Peer Gynt Suite No. 1, "Aase's Death," mm . 17-24
Adagio

147

PRA CTICE

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

C D -3/T R. 4

PR A C TIC E

th e

S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

14 8

The lush romantic sound for strings is an important color to master. To that
end, analyze the following string works for spacing, articulation, and disposi­
tion of foreground, middleground, and background material:
В

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Bartok, Divertimento
Bloch, Concerti Grossi Nos. 1 and 2
Britten, A Simple Symphony
Dvorak, Serenade in E major for Strings, Op. 22
Honegger, Symphony No. 2 for Strings and Trumpet
Mahler, "Adagietto" from Symphony No. 5
W. Schuman, Symphony for Strings No. 5

Penderecki, Threnody for the Victims
of Hiroshima
A work such as Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima by Krzysztof Penderecki
can be considered a prototype of a mid-twentieth-century work for strings. The
composer specifies the exact number of instruments needed (twenty-four vio­
lins, ten violas, ten cellos, eight basses), and he often divides a particular section
so that each instrumentalist plays a separate pitch. Color is the important para­
meter here; Penderecki takes full advantage of everything the instruments can
do, and invents some new tricks as well.
The specifications that precede the actual music must be considered as part
of the score, since they explain the unusual markings that are found in it. In the
score, the thick horizontal lines indicate approximate range and position of the
cluster to be executed by the designated divisi instruments. The exact positions
are given below each cluster.

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s
example

5 - 3 2 . Penderecki, Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima, end

a.

GUIDE TO THE NOTATION

t

sharpen a quarter tone
sharpen three quarter tones

|f

flatten a quarter tone

4

flatten three quarter tones

^

highest note of the instrument (no definite
pitch)
play between the bridge and tailpiece

If

arpeggio on 4 strings behind the bridge
play on the tailpiece (arco) by bowing the
tailpiece at an angle of 90j to its longer axis

^

play on the bridge by bowing the wood of the
bridge by bowing the wood of the bridge at a
right angle at its right side

f

percussion effect: strike the upper sound board
of the violin with the nut or the fingertips

пV

several irregular changes of bow

ЛЛЛЛЛЛЛЛ

molto vibrato
very slow vibrato with a 14 tone frequency
difference produced by sliding the finger

УС

very rapid nonrhythmicized tremolo

ord.

ordinario

s.p.

sul ponticello

s.t.

sul tasto

c.i.

col legno

Lbatt.

legno battuto

149

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

150

The S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

b. LAST TWO PAGES OF THE PIECE

C D -3/T R . 5

12 Vln. иг;

1-10
10 Via.

10 Vic.

=F

=F

JT
cJ.

о
1-8 з

8 D.B. ~

10 D.B.

=F
10

"

6"

10"

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

T H E S T U D Y OF O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

IN

PR A C TIC E

152

ORCHESTRATION

Babbitt, Correspondences (strings with tape)
H. Dutilleux, Mystere de Vinstant (strings with percussion)
Foote, Suite in E minor
Grieg, Holberg Suite
Holst, St. Paul's Suite
Lutosfewski, Funeral Music
Mendelssohn, Octet for Strings
R. Shchedrin, Carmen Suite (strings with percussion)
F. Sowande, African Suite
Tchaikovsky, Serenade for Strings
Warlock, Capriol Suite

U s in g t h e S t r in g c h o ir
A c c o m p a n y a S o l o is t

to

Because of its homogeneous quality as well as its great technical ability and dy­
namic range, the string choir is frequendy used to accompany an instrumental
or vocal soloist, a chorus, or a group of instruments in a purely orchestral work.
Hundreds of different scorings have been created for this purpose, and we shall
examine some of the more popular ones. The possibilities are almost limitless,
but a quick study of some traditional formulas may give some idea of what can
be done.

Mendelssohn, Elijah
Mendelssohn uses a simple homophonic on/off-beat accompaniment in this
passage:
CD -3/T R. 6

example

Adagio (J =66)

5 -33 . Mendelssohn, Elijah, 'It is enough," mm. 1-9

S t r in g s

ample

FI

Ob.

ACL

Bsn.

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via.
Soprano
solo

Vic.
D.B.

5-34. Mendelssohn, Elijah, "Hear ye, Israel," mm. 1-7

IN

In the next excerpt sustained harmony notes in the violas and basses are
overlaid with an agitated rhythmic figure in the violins:

153

PRACTICE

fo r

с а -З П п .

7

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Here the sustained harmony notes are overlaid with an arpeggiated violin
figure:

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A CTICE

154

c d - 3/ t r . e

example

5 -3 5 . Mendelssohn, Elijah, "He watching over Israel," m m . 1 - 5

Allegro moderate (j=126)

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

Mozart, The Marriage of Figaro
Agitated string counterpoint highlights the frantic action that takes place in the
opera at that moment:
e x a m p l e

5-36. Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Act П, No. 14, mm. 1-13
Allegro assai

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

SUSANNA

CHERUBINO

Vic.
D.B.

C D -3/T R . 9

155

PRA CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

156

Bizet, Carmen
In the famous "Habanera," the cellos provide the ethnic rhythm characteristic of
the dance while the rest of the strings support the singer both melodically and
harmonically playing pizzicato. Notice that the singer can execute her part with­
out orchestral interference.
C D -3/ T R . 1 0

example

5-37. Bizet, Carmen, Act I, "L'amour est un oiseau rebelle," mm. 1-8

In the prelude to the opera, Bizet accompanies the time that is played by the
cellos (which is doubled by trumpet, clarinet, and bassoon, not shown in
the short score given here) with a particular device—now a cliche—to invest the
passage with a suitably ominous quality: a tremolo accompaniment played by
the upper strings.

Vln. 1

Via-2

Vln. 1

Vln.2

Faure, Requiem
In order to produce a somber background, only the lower strings accompany
the melody in this excerpt. Note the unison violas and first cellos. This scoring
provides a dark-hued harmonic background for the Requiem text. The strings
often double the organ in this piece, as in the passage quoted below.

PRA C TICE

Andante moderate

ГТП. t l

IN

121

C D -3

ION

e x a m p l e 5 - 3 8 . Bizet, Carmen, Prelude, mm. 121-131

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

158

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

c d - 3/ t r .

12

e x a m p l e 5 -39 . Faure, Requiem, "Introit and Kyrie/' mm. 18-25

p ia n o t o

S t r in g s

IN

fr o m

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g

You may be called on to transcribe an accompaniment from piano to strings.
There are a variety of ways to accomplish this task, but the most important con­
sideration is realizing the composer's intent without introducing any distortion
of it. Of course, piano figuration is not always simple to transcribe, but one must
be careful to uphold the spirit of the original accompaniment, even though its
figuration is of necessity somewhat adapted for the strings. The dovetailing of
parts can be used to re-create the smoothness that a single player can achieve on
a single instrument. Obviously, one must not dovetail parts where an accent is
required. The piano's sustaining pedal must also be translated for string orches­
tra in an appropriate fashion.
First, let us see how the sustaining pedal's effect may be simulated:
e x a m p l e

5 -д о .

Transcribing to Simulate Sustaining Pedal

a. PIANO VERSION

4SL

---------------------------------------------------- 1

b. THREE STRING VERSIONS (PLAYED WITHOUT PAUSE)
1

2

159

PRACl

S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s

C D -3/T R. 1 3

3

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Now let us take a few piano accompaniments to songs and create suitable
string scorings for them. Before we do this, it is important to point out that
there are many simple piano accompaniments, such as afterbeats, sustained
harmonies, and certain figurations that can simply be copied out into string
parts. Others, such as the ones given below, require more thought. Study these
carefully.

T he S tudy o f

o r c h e s t r a t io n

example

5 -4 i. Schubert, "Riickblick," mm. 1-2

a. p i a n o

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

IN P R A C T I C E

160

v er s io n

Nicht zu geschwind

CO -3/TR . 1 4

Not too fast

Not too fast

Repeated chords in the strings have the same effect as those written for
piano and therefore sound idiomatic, especially at this fast tempo.
example

5 - 4 2 . Brahms, "An ein Veilchen," mm. 1-3

a . PI ANO VERS I ON ( a GOOD E XAMP LE o f THE DOVET AI LI NG OF P A R T S )

Andante

u
и
S c o r in g f o r S t r in g s
b . S T R IN G V E R S IO N

CD-3ATR. 1 5

Andante

e x a m p l e

5-43. Brahms, "Oliebliche Wangen," mm. 1-3

a. P IA N O V E R SIO N
L e b h a ft

Voice
0

lieb

li

che

-

gen,

ihr

macht

mir

Ver

Piano

b . S T R IN G V E R S IO N

Lively
Vln-1

Vln. 2

C D -3/ T R . 1 6

161

!

162

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Like the Brahms excerpt in Example 543, this accompaniment lends itself
much better to repeated notes in the string version.
example

5-44. Saint-Sa«is, "L'Attente," mm. 1-3

a. PIANO VERSION
Allegro agitato

Allegro agitato

The composer's taste is the final arbiter in choosing the most effective scor­
ing for a particular passage. We will again find that this is true in the pieces dis­
cussed in Chapters 8,11,14, and 15, which, like this chapter, deal directly with
scoring for particular ensembles and for full orchestra. Studying principles that
have proven to be successful helps us to select the best instruments and their
distribution in terms of melodic material, as well as to decide on the most ap­
propriate surrounding texture. One may profit from adopting the tried-and-true
ways, or, armed with the knowledge of what one is rejecting, by searching for
new solutions. The overriding consideration is realizing that orchestration must
serve the structure of a work. It must clarify the form and support the tonal flow
by what it can uniquely contribute: the element of color.
ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

String Orchestra:
Britten, Four Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes, "Dawn," beginning (flute-violin
combination)
Britten, Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings

D. Diamond, Rounds for Strings (contrapuntal writing in last movement)
Grieg, Holberg Suite
Stravinsky, Concerto in D
Vaughan Williams, Fantasy on a Theme of Thomas Tallis (large string
combinations)
Pizzicato in Foreground and Background:
Bart6k, Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta, second movement
Bruckner, Symphony No. 3, third movement (cello-bass pizz.)
Casella, Paganiniana, second movement, at [65] (left-hand pizz.)
Grieg, Peer Gynt, Suite No. 1, 'Anitra's Dance"
Holst, St. Paul's Suite, second movement
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 9, first movement (violas, cellos, basses)
Tchaikovsky, Romeo and Juliet, mm. 38-51
Wagner, Tannhauser, Act Ш, Scene 2, "Wolfram's address," mm. 38ff. (strings
and harp)
Scoring for One or a Combination of String Instruments Effectively Negotiating
an Important Melodic Idea:
Chausson, Symphony in Bl, third movement, at [в] (high violins)
Rimsky-Korsakov, Le Coq d’or Suite, opening of third movement (long viola
solo)
Sibelius, Symphony No. 1, third movement, 14 mm. before [к] (double-bass
solo)
R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, beginning at the fugue (divisi double basses)
R. Strauss, Death and Transfiguration, mm. 428-475 (high violins)
Verdi, Otello, Act IV, at [U] after "Ave Maria"
Wagner, Der fliegende Hollander, Overture, mm. 353-361 (violin and viola)
Additional Works Featuring Contrapuntal Writing for Strings:
Frangaix, Symphonie d'archets, first movement
Lutos/awski, Funeral Music, beginning
Riegger, Symphony No. 3, fourth movement, 10 mm. after [y] (Allegro feroce,
mm. 1-46)
N. Rorem, String Symphony (throughout)
Additional Works Using Divisi Passages:
Debussy, Nocturnes, "Sirenes," at ГП
Wagner, Lohengrin, Prelude, beginning and end
Weber, Euryanthe, Overture, mm. 129-143 (violins and viola)
Works Incorporating More Contemporary String Writing:
S. Adler, Symphony No. 5, third movement, "The Future"
M. Borkowski, Limits for Orchestra (many string effects)
M. Colgrass, As Quiet As, second movement (col legno, col legtw battuto,
harmonics, jete)
A. Goehr, Romanza for Cello and Orchestra, mm. 52-55 and 363-366
Messiaen, Chant des desportes (extra-large string section)
The following two works are typical of postwar Polish string writing:
Lutosl'awski, Paroles tissees
Penderecki, Dies irae

163

IN P R A C T I C E

f o r s t r in g s

O R C H E S T R A T IO W

S c o r in g

6

T h e Wo o d w in d C h o ir
(R e e d A e r o p h o n e s )

The story of the orchestra resembles an old family chronicle, or more exactly, the
story of the rivalry between a large number of families. Eventually, they unite
for a common aim and the establishment of regular affairs of state.*
Composed of largely heterogeneous instruments, the woodwind choir is per­
haps the most quarrelsome of all the families within the orchestra. It is difficult
for wind instruments to time with one another, and only the finest players can
accomplish any kind of balance or blend of their colorful and diverse timbres.
Even the word woodwinds does not accurately describe this family. Although
all the major instruments in the group, with the exception of the saxophones,
were, at one time, actually made of wood, this is no longer the case. Flutes are
now made of all kinds of metals, even gold, silver, and platinum; the cheaper
clarinets are made of plastic. The saxophones, being a relatively recent invention
(nineteenth century), have always been made of brass, but we will classify them
under the rubric "woodwinds" since they are related to the group in so many
ways. It is interesting to note, however, that a classic text like Cedi Forsyth's
Orchestration (1914) discusses of the saxophone in the brass instrument chapter.

C o n s t r u c t io n
Before delving into the details of construction and categorization of woodwind
instruments, we will look very briefly at the prindples on which they function.
Without getting too much into acoustical details, one can state that a body of
air will vibrate when set in motion because it possesses both elasticity and iner­
tia. The vibrating string communicates only a very small amount of sound. In
order to project greater volume, that sound must be amplified by passing
through some sort of soundbox. A conical or cylindrical tube does not require
this kind of amplification because the vibrating air column within it communi­
cates the sound at a desired amplitude directly through an opening in the tube.
It is, therefore, imperative that one know the mode of producing sound for each
of the woodwinds—that is, through what kind of tube the air column passes
once it is set in motion—in order to understand each instrument's timbre, range,
registral strength, amplitude, agility, and articulation possibilities.
*Paul Bekker, The Orchestra (New York: W. W . Norton, 1963), p. 15.

164

T h e Wo o d w i n d C h o i r ( R e e d A e r o p h o n e s )

The tube has to have holes, or openings, cut according to exact mathematical
requirements in order to produce all the semitones between the fundamental
tone and the first overtone (the octave above). However, the holes are too far
apart for the hand to cover them. An early primitive mechanism compensated
somewhat for this inadequacy, but no real advance in the construction of wood­
wind instruments was made until the nineteenth century. Theobald Boehm
(1794-1881) invented a mechanical system of interlocking keys and levers, read­
ily worked by the fingers, that made it relatively simple to reach all the notes on
wind instruments. The Boehm system has been continually perfected; virtually
any skips, trills, or tremolos can performed on any woodwind instrument
today.

C l a s s i f y i n g W o o d w i n d In s t r u m e n t s
It is possible to classify the woodwind choir in at least five ways:
1. by families
2. by the kind of reed used (single or double)
3. by the shape of the pipe
4. by the interval the instrument overblows
5. by whether or not the instrument transposes

Classification by Families
1. The flute family*: piccolo, flute, alto flute, bass flute
2. The oboe family: oboe, oboe d'amore, English hom, heckelphone, bassoon,
contrabassoon
3. The clarinet family: C, D, El», Bl>, and A clarinets, alto clarinet (ЕЮ , bass clar­
inet (generally in B t , sometimes in Et>), contrabass clarinet (Bl> or ЕЮ, basset
hom (F)
4. The saxophone family: sopranino (usually in Ei>, transposed up a minor 3rd),
soprano (ВЮ, alto, (ЕЮ , tenor (ВЮ, baritone (ЕЮ , and bass saxophones (ВЮ

Classification by Reeds
In any discussion of reed or nonreed wind instruments, of prime importance is
the embouchure, a word that refers to the method of blowing into the instrument
to set the air column in motion either directly (flutes) or by the reed mechanism
or mouthpiece (all other woodwinds). The pitch variation—or intonation—is
dependent on the embouchure, since it is largely controlled by the Ups. The
pitch can also be slightly modified by manipulating the mouthpiece joint, or at
times the other joints, thereby changing the length of the instrument. Pulling
T h e recorder consort (called the flageolet family)— sopranino, soprano, alto, tenor, bass—
is not used in the modem symphony orchestra.

T he Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

S IN G L E R E E D : C L A R IN E T
Mo u t h p ie c e a n d R e e d

D O U B LE REED:
oboe

D O U B LE REED:
Ba s s o o n

out the mouthpiece (or head joint on the flute) slightly lengthens the instrument
and therefore lowers the pitch; pushing it in raises the pitch a bit.
1. Nonreed woodwinds: all flutes (plus recorders)
2. Single reeds: all clarinets and saxophones
3. Double reeds: oboe, oboe d'amore, English horn, heckelphone, bassoon, and
contrabassoon

Classification by the Shape of the Pipe
1. Cylindrical tube (essentially, a straight pipe): flutes and clarinets*
a. Even though the flute is closed at one end, the embouchure hole is so
near the closed end that it is called an open cylindrical pipe.
b. The clarinet is called a closed cylindrical tube because its mouthpiece
closes the tube at one end.
2. Conical tubes (the pipe is larger at one end than at the other): oboes, English
horns, bassoons, and saxophones

Classification by Overblowing
Overblowing is the woodwind equivalent of touching a node on a string at the
halfway mark, producing the first harmonic. On the wind instrument, this is ac­
complished by blowing with more force, thereby compelling the vibrating air
column to split fractionally.
1. All conical pipe instruments and flutes overblow the octave
2. All clarinets overblow the twelfth

*Acousticians quibble about classifying the flute and clarinet as pure cylindrical shapes, for
neither really is. The flute is actually a cylindro-conical pipe, but for our purposes, the simpler
definition will suffice.

T h e W o o d w in d c h o i r ( R e e d a e r o p h o n e s )

Classification by Transposition
1. Nontransposing woodwinds: flute, oboe, and bassoon
2. Transposing woodwinds
a. Instruments that never change their interval of transposition:
• Piccolo
• Bass flute
• Contrabassoon
• Oboe d'amore in A (transposes like the A clarinet)
• English hom in F (transposes like the French hom in F)
• Alto flute in G
• Alto clarinet in El> (transposes like the alto saxophone in Et)
• Bass clarinet in Bl>
• Contrabass clarinet in Et>
• Soprano saxophone in Bt> (transposes like the Bt clarinet)
• Alto saxophone in Et
• Tenor saxophone in Bktransposes like the bass clarinet in Bt>)
• Baritone saxophone in El> (transposes like the contrabass clarinet in
Et)
• Bass saxophone in Bt
b. Instruments that change their interval of transposition:
• Clarinet
• Bass clarinet
Since there is more than one variety of these two instruments, the score
and part must be clearly marked as to which clarinet or bass clarinet
should be used in a particular passage or piece.

T h e P r in c ip l e

of

T r a n s p o s it io n

A transposing instrument produces pitches that sound different from what is
notated in the score. It is up to the composer or orchestrator to transpose the
part so that the player can simply read it off the page, fingering it naturally on
the instrument but producing the pitches that the music demands.
It is therefore important to distinguish between the written pitch, the note
one sees on a page, and the sounding or concert pitch, the resulting pitch emanat­
ing from a transposing instrument. (The key in which the entire orchestra is
playing is called the concert key.) The following example shows the difference
between written and sounding pitches on the Bi>and A clarinets.
e x a m p l e

6 -i

W ritten K ey
C larinet in A

—ж —

. Written Pitch and Concert Pitch

Concert K ey
(Key th at w ill
sound)

ft
rfty rH
«D

~~Q

167

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

In the melody in Example 6-2, the composer writes the same notes for both the
Bl> and A clarinets, realizing that the two phrases will sound at different pitch
levels (see Example 6-3) since the two instruments transpose at different inter­
vals. Notice also that the composer has provided a long rest for the clarinetist to
change instruments.

e x a m p l e 6-2 . Written Pitches
Take AClarinet

example

И Cl.

6-3. Sounding Pitches

_____________

ACl.

If the composer had wanted the clarinetist to play both phrases on the same
clarinet, the music would have to be notated as in Example 6-4.

example

6-4. Written Part

Before the mechanical systems on these instruments were perfected, instru­
ments at different transpositions were used to avoid the need of playing too
many accidentals. Today, switching clarinets, especially within a single work, is
quite rare. Copland, however, alternates between the Bt and A clarinets in
Appalachian Spring.
The basic rule for all transposing instruments is that the written С will
sound the pitch (the fundamental) by which the particular instrument is
designated.

th e

Wo o d w i n d C h o i r ( R e e d a e r o p h o n e s )

T a b l e o f T r a n s p o s it io n s

Written Pitch
Bl>Clarinet
Bl>Soprano saxophone

4

^ -= -

Sounding Pitch
■=

a major 2nd below the
written pitch

A Clarinet

a minor 3rd below the
written pitch

El>Sopranino saxophone
Eb Clarinet

a minor 3rd above the
written pitch

D Clarinet

a major 2nd above the
written pitch

F English horn
F Basset horn

a perfect 5th below the
written pitch

G Alto flute

a perfect 4th below the
written pitch

El>Alto clarinet
El>Alto saxophone

a major 6th below the
written pitch

Bl>Tenor saxophone
Bl>Bass clarinet*

a major 9th below the
written pitch

El. Baritone saxophone

a major 13th below the
written pitch

Bl>Contrabass clarinet
Bl>Bass saxophone

two octaves and a
major 2nd below the
the written pitch

Piccolo

an octave above the
written pitch

Contrabassoon

an octave below the
written pitch

*If the bass clarinet is written in the bass clef, it sounds only a major 2nd below the notated
pitch. If, by chance, one encounters a bass clarinet in A , it is useful to know that it sounds a
minor 10th below the notated pitch if written in the treble clef, or a minor 3rd below if written
in the bass clef.

169

170

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

In order to sound С major, the signature:
for an instrument in Bl>must be D major,
for an instrument in A must be Ei> major,
for an instrument in Et must be A major,
for an instrument in D must be Bt major,
for an instrument in F must be G major.
Almost all non-octave-transposing woodwinds transpose down, the excep­
tions being the piccolo clarinets in D and El>and the sopranino sax in F. In addi­
tion, all instruments designated tenor, baritone, or bass automatically add an
octave—or two octaves in some cases—to their transposition, if they are notated
in the treble clef.
The decision to use a clarinet in A, Bt, D, or El> is usually based on the key of
the work. Works in flat keys usually call for B\>clarinets and Et piccolo clarinets;
those in sharp keys are best served by A clarinets and D piccolo clarinets. Since
tonal schemes today are no longer rigid or predictable, this consideration is less
important, which frees the composer to use either set of instruments. The larger
(A, D) clarinets have a slightly more luscious sound, but the difference is not
greatly discernible. Indeed, the irrelevance of the key relationship has existed
since the advent of highly chromatic writing in the latter half of the nineteenth
century. English horns, saxophones, alto and bass flutes, and piccolos and contrabassoons, always transpose to the same interval.

P l a y in g T e c h n i q u e s
HIM H l l > —

T I i l T 'i f f r n i r i

Intensity and volume vary with each woodwind instrument, depending on the
range and particular register in which the passage appears. Intonation, dynam­
ics, and in some instances articulation, trills, and technical versatility are much
harder to control in extreme registers than in the middle ranges of all of the in­
struments; this is truer of the highest register than of the lowest. For example,
the flute and piccolo are very weak in volume in their lowest octave, whereas
the oboe and bassoon should not be called on to perform pianissimo in the lower
fifth of their range. On the other hand, the clarinet uniquely possesses the full
dynamic spectrum in all its registers, from top to bottom.

Vibrato
Just as the string tone is enriched by the use of vibrato, so is the woodwind and,
for that matter, the brass instrument's tone. On wind instruments, vibrato is
produced by starting a rapid pulsation of the air column in one of four different
ways: (1) by movement of the Ups and jaw (normal for clarinet and saxophone,
seldom for oboe and bassoon); (2) by movement of the throat muscles (some­
times for flute); (3) by movement of the abdominal muscles (normal for oboe
and bassoon); or (4) by a combination of movements of the throat and abdomi­
nal muscles (normal for flute). The first way is the most difficult to achieve effec-

The

w o o d w in d

C h o ir (R e e d A e r o p h o n e s )

tively, for it may upset the embouchure; therefore, whenever possible the other
methods are preferred.
A composer or orchestrator does not have to specify the use of vibrato in a
score; a professional wind player will naturally color a pitch with vibrato to
make it rich and round. The width of the vibrato is a matter of style and good
taste and can be modified by a professional player. If a composer wishes to have
no vibrato in a certain passage, he or she must indicate this by marking the
score senza vibrato, non vibrato, or as Copland does, "white tone." When the
player is to return to a normal way of playing (with vibrato), the indication con
vibrato or "normal" (normale) should appear.
Here is a famous "white tone" passage from Copland's Appalachian Spring:
example

,

6-5. Copland, Appalachian Spring, mm. 1-4
Very slowly (J = 66)

2 0b.

ACl. 1

ACl. 2

Articulation, Tonguing, and Phrasing
Articulation on woodwinds is effected by tonguing. A tone on a woodwind in­
strument is initiated when the tongue touches the roof of the mouth and imme­
diately pulls back, as if one were saying the syllable "tuh." (There are instances,
depending on the instrument, register, and dynamic, in which the syllable
"duh" is used instead.) The tone is stopped, either by returning the tongue to its
original position, hitting the side of the reed with it, or by cutting off the supply
of breath. When there are no slurs marked in the music, the notes are tongued or
articulated separately. When slurs are present, the player performs all the
pitches within the slur in one breath—like the string player on one bow—and
tongues only the first note. (A wind player is able to play many more notes in
one breath than a string player can play on one bow, due to the limitations of
bow length.) This in-one-breath articulation is called legato playing, though not
all in-one-breath playing on wind instruments is necessarily legato.
Differences in articulation can produce quite different effects. For instance,
the legato playing called for by the slurring in Example 6-6b would sound much
smoother than the more sprightly, mostly tongued version that Beethoven actu­
ally wrote (Example 6-6a).

C D -2/ T R . 2 4

171

172

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

C D -2/ T R . 2 5

6 -6. Beethoven, Symphony No. 8, first movement, mm. 1-4

e x a m p l e

a.

l

Allegro

Fl

b.

There are several variations in straight tonguing, all of which are notated in
a particular way.
Staccato
When a dot is placed above or below a notehead, the player will articulate a
very short, staccato note, with a natural separation between notes.
C D -2/ T R . 2 6

example

6 -7. Staccato Tonguing

»C1.

Soft Tonguing
In some instances, slurs are placed over repeated notes that have dots or
dashes, calling for "soft tonguing." With dots over the notes under the slur, the
articulation is slightly "harder" than when dashes separate the notes. The effect
is similar to slurred staccato and loure on strings, played on one bow. Here they
are performed in one breath.
C D -2/ T R . 2 7

e x a m p l e 6 - e . Soft Tonguing

Double Tonguing
In very fast passages, the player will double tongue and, especially in fast
triplet passages, will triple tongue. The syllables that are used to articulate dou­
ble and triple tonguing are "te" and "ke" in various combinations:
C D -2/ T R . 2 8
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

example

6 -9. Double Tonguing

FL
teke teke, etc.

T h e Wo o d w in d c h o i r ( R e e d A e r o p h o n e s )
e x a m p l e 6 - 1 o . Mendelssohn, Symphony No. 4 , first movement, mm. 1 - 6

(triple tonguing)

C D -2/T R . 2 8
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 0 8

Allegro vivace

ACL

Dynamic "Envelopes"
The usual way of releasing a tone on a woodwind instrument is to return the
tongue to its original position. There is a way of using the tongue to create a spe­
cial effect that, although not exclusive to the woodwinds, is best for these
instruments. It consists of tfp,
or vice versa, a strong attack that is
immediately decreased in volume and may be increased again.
example

6-ii. Beethoven, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 1-4

C D -2/T R . 2 9
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Adagio molto (J> = 88)

exam ple

6- 1 2 . Dynamic "Envelope"

C D -2/T R . 2 9
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 7

173

174

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Flutter Tongue
Flatterzunge (Ger.); Frullato (It.)
This special effect is not unlike the unmeasured tremolo for strings in notation
and purpose. Of course, the sound is different, more like a whir. Flutter tonguing can be produced either by a rapid roll or fluttering of the tongue, or by a
prolonged guttural "r" rolled in the throat. It is relatively easy to execute on all
flutes, clarinets, and saxophones, but more difficult on oboes and bassoons,
even though it is used in twentieth-century literature quite often. Rutter tongu­
ing may be required on long notes, or an entire passage (fast or slow) may be
played with flutter tonguing. The parts must be marked like an unmeasured
string tremolo, with three slashes through the stems or above whole notes, or
the words "flutter tongue" (abbr. Fit.) must be written in the score above the
passage. Sometimes both of these markings are used.
C D -2/T R . 3 0

e x a m p l e 6 - 1 3 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I, "Cerdes mysterieux
des adolescentes," at |103l

Muting
None of the woodwind instruments have mutes, yet composers have asked for
muted sounds. Wind players usually accommodate by lightly stuffing a cloth
or handkerchief into the opening of the instrument, or by covering the open
end of the bell with their hands. Obviously, this is not possible to do on the
flute.

T h e Wo o d w i n d C h o i r ( R e e d A e r o p h o n e s )

Multiphonics and Other Special Effects
Multiphonics
During the latter part of the twentieth century many special techniques have
been developed for woodwind instruments. The most far-reaching is multi­
phonics, that is, the simultaneous sounding of more than one note. Not every­
one can perform these, and some of the "double stops" can be produced only on
certain models of instruments. Even though some multiphonics have been
called for in newer orchestral and band literature, the greater demand has been
in solo and chamber music. Therefore, this technique will be discussed briefly in
the sections of Chapter 7 that investigate each instrument.

Microtones
Another rather recent innovation is the use of microtones and special shad­
ings of a pitch. This is more common for orchestral winds, but, like multiphon­
ics, microtones are very difficult to play. Some players have trick fingerings by
which they can produce the desired microtones or pitch shadings. Some exam­
ples of these will appear in Chapter 7.

Glissandi
Glissandi are most successful on the clarinet and saxophone, but only in an
upward direction; the downward glissando is effective only between neighbor­
ing pitches. Flutes, oboes, and bassoons, as well as clarinets, can depress a pitch
or raise it slightly by changing the embouchure; this sounds like a slight glis­
sando, but should not be used between pitches greater than a 2nd.
example

Я

6 - 1 4 . Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue, opening

ADDITIONAL p a s s a g e FOR STUDY

Crumb, Echoes of Time and the River, second movement, mm. 12-13

Slap Tonguing
Slap tonguing, a special effect taken from jazz, is most effective on clarinets
and saxophones, but it is also possible on the flute. It produces a perky, snappy,
overarticulated attack.

C D -2/T R . 3 1

175

176

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

CD-2/TR. 3 2

e x a m p l e 6 - 1 5 . Copland, Music for the Theater, ПЛ-Гб]

Subito allegro molto (J = 144)

Key Clicking
Key clicking has been used quite extensively in the last few decades. It can
create simply a percussive, rhythmic effect; slapping down hard without any air
blowing through the instrument can produce very faint pitches as well. The ef­
fect, particularly on the flute and when the listener is very close to the instru­
ment, is much like that obtained by a string player who puts down his or her
fingers hard on the strings without using the bow. Since the resulting sound is
so soft, the composer or orchestrator should employ this technique only very
discreetly in orchestral music.
CD-2/TR. 3 3

e x a m p l e

6-16.

C. Polin, The Death ofProcris, second movement, mm. 33-36

33
Fl.

The opposite technique is also sometimes used. The composer may ask the wind
players to blow through the instrument without producing any pitches, which
simply gives the sound of air blowing through a pipe.

Whistle Tones
Flutists are sometimes called on to produce whistle tones. These are pro­
duced by turning the instrument slightly away from the face and blowing across
instead of into the mouthpiece while fingering the pitches. Doing so can cause a

T H E W OODW IND C H O IR ( R E E D A E R O P H O N E S )

shriek, such as those required by Sydney Hodkinson in Interplay and Donald
Erb in his Concerto for Solo Percussionist.
With all these techniques, as with the special string effects covered in
Chapter 2, it is better to write out one's intentions in the score and parts, since
no universally standardized notation exists.*

T h e Wo o d w in d S e c t i o n o f
a S ym ph o n y Or c h est r a
The instruments are listed here in the order in which they appear on the score
page.
1. The classical orchestra/ up to and including early Beethoven:
2 flutes
2 oboes
2 clarinets (the type of clarinet determined by the key of the work)
2 bassoons
2. The nineteenth-century orchestra after Beethoven:
piccolo
2 flutes
2 oboes
English hom
2 clarinets
bass clarinet
2 bassoons
contrabassoon
3. The large orchestra of the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries:
piccolo (sometimes two piccolos or one doubling on alto flute)
3 flutes
3 oboes
English hom
C, D, or El>clarinet
2 or 3 clarinets in Bl>or A
bass clarinet (some scores ask for two bass clarinets or basset hom)
3 bassoons
contrabassoon
When saxophones are used, they appear in the following sequence: soprano,
alto, tenor, baritone, bass. They are placed between the clarinets and the bas­
soons on the score page.

*For the dearest notation of.these effects, check Kurt Stone, Music Notation in thei Twentieth
Century.
tin some early Haydn symphonies (for instance. No. 22), the English hom was used; also,
piccolo was used in some stage works before Beethoven. However, the usual Classical orches­
tra is what appears here.

178

T H E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

S c o r in g

fo r

W o o d w i n d In s t r u m e n t s

Scoring for winds is fairly straightforward, with no major pitfalls that the or­
chestrator need consider. He or she, however, should be familiar with the tech­
nical and aural limitations of each register on all woodwind instruments, as well
as the ease with which certain instruments (or instrumentalists!) can play pas­
sages that are replete with runs and leaps. In addition, the orchestrator should
be aware that breath control is different from instrument to instrument; the
oboe player, for instance, needs less breath and is therefore able to play for
longer stretches than any other wind player.
In order to create the most legible score, the following rules should be
observed:
1. The first and second parts of identical instruments (two flutes, two oboes,
etc.) are usually written on the same staff. An exception occurs when the dif­
ference in rhythm and general complexity of the two parts would make this
practice confusing; in those cases, a separate staff should be used for the sec­
ond player. When there are three parts for identical instruments, the first
and second should be on one staff, the third on a separate staff. If the second
and third parts are rhythmically and melodically more akin to each other
than the first and second, the first should appear alone on one staff and the
second and third combined on another.
exam ple

6 - 1 7 . Putting the First and Second Parts on One Staff

2. If both first and second players are to play in unison, the part must be
marked a 2. In the case of three players in unison, the part should be marked
a3.
e x a m p l e

recorded)

6 -ie .

Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, first movement, mm. 233-236 (not

T H E WOODWIND CH OIR (R E E D A E R O PH O N E S)

3. If the first or second player is to play alone, one can either supply the appro­
priate rests in the score for the other player or mark the part 1., 1°, or 2., 2°.

4. The term divisi should not be used in wind or brass parts, since it is a desig­
nation for string players only, who read two to a part. Each wind player is
given a separate part. Certain woodwind passages are designated as sole to
emphasize the fact that a particular line or melody is the most important
event occurring in the orchestral texture at that moment. In Example 6-14,
the clarinet "solo" is the only thing audible at the beginning of the work.

7
In d i v i d u a l W o o d w i n d s

Each woodwind instrument has a distinctive sound, which makes it invaluable
as a presenter of melodic material. In this role, each instrument exhibits a cer­
tain personality that, along with every segment of its range, has been typecast
by many composers. Thus, parts that are assigned to a woodwind instrument
appear idiomatic to that instrument, and psychologically as well as musically
could not be performed on any other instrument. As any good orchestrator
must do, we will keep in mind each instrument's unique personality as we ex­
amine each woodwind in turn.
It is important also to concentrate on the role each instrument plays in an or­
chestral context. When we describe a certain register as weak, it does not mean
that this register would be inappropriate for a solo passage or as part of a lighter
texture, such as that of a woodwind quintet. Rather, we designate sections of an
instrument's range as weak to caution composers or orchestrators not to cover
the instrument with a lush orchestration, since it is physically impossible for the
player to extract more volume out of the instrument in that register. Similarly,
some extremely high registers are shrill, and in most cases the performer can
only play them extremely loudly. Too often inexperienced orchestrators who ig­
nore registral peculiarities of woodwind instruments blame the players if the re­
sults do not coincide with their intentions. To arm the reader we will examine
the range and registral characteristics of every major orchestral woodwind in­
strument in this and the following chapter.

CD-RO M

CD -3
FLU TE

FLU TE
Flauto (It .); Flute (Fr .); Flote (G er.)

The flute is the only nonreed instru­
ment in the woodwind choir, and
though all the other woodwind in­
struments exhibit great agility and
sensitivity, none can equal the flute
in these attributes.

180

In d iv id u a l w o o d w in d s

piccolo
flute

alto flute
bass flute

e x a m p l e 7 -1 . Range

exam ple

7-2 . Registral Characteristics

W eak, but
luscious

Most professional flutes made in America have a В foot, meaning that they are
able to play low BN3.* In the uppermost register, the modem flute goes beyond
high С 7 %

to C#7 and D7. All pitches are difficult to produce above A6

A

, and the player must approach them with extreme caution—prefer­
ably through an ascending scale. In general, the highest fourth and the lowest
fourth, with all intervening chromatic pitches, are most problematic, especially
for the nonprofessional.
Here are two examples of the flute's beautiful lower registers. In each pas­
sage the composer is careful to accompany the flute with a very sparse orches­
tral texture so that the flute can be heard. For instance, in Example 7-3, the
strings begin with a sustained harmonic background, accelerating the harmonic
rhythm only in measure 4 (we advise the reader to compare these passages
against the full score). The Brahms example, which features strings and two
homs playing a soft homophonic accompaniment, affords a wonderful opportu­
nity to observe the profound changes in register of the flute.
"Some flutists argue that a В foot makes it easier to play C 4, and that the В foot gives a
slightly greater resonance or depth to the flute. European flutists have felt that the В foot takes
away some brilliance.

182

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tra tio n
e x a m p l e 7 -3. Dvorak, Symphony No. 9 ("From the New World"), first
movement, mm. 149-156

CD-2/TR. 3 4
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Allegro molto

149

exam ple

CD-2/TR. 3 4
INDEX 2 / 0 :1 5

7 - 4 . Brahms, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 97-104

103

1

ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY

Debussy, Iberia, first movement, 4 mm. before 1331; second movement, mm. 5-9
after [5б]
Here are two examples in which the flute's tones are the purest. In the
Tchaikovsky excerpt (Example 7-5), the pizzicato string accompaniment is
played pianissimo, with mutes (con sordino). Again, the composers are careful
not to interfere with the flute's melody line in these passages by scoring the rest
of the orchestra too heavily—in fact, in Example 7-6 Debussy scores this passage
as a flute solo.
CD-2TTR. 3 5
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exam ple

7-5. Tchaikovsky, Piano Concerto No. 1, second movement, mm.

5-12
Andante semplice

CD-2/TR. 3 5
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 3 3

exam ple

7-6. Debussy, Prelude a "L'apres-midi d'unfaune," mm. 21-24 (solo

flute)

3

In d i v i d u a l W o o d w i n d s

The upper range of the flute possesses commanding brilliance; the first of
the next two examples also shows the flute's agility. All separately notated
pitches are tongued, and slurred ones are played legato (on one breath).
e x a m p le

7 -7 . Rossini, William Tell, Overture, m m . 209-224

C O -2/TR . 3 6

Slowly
209

e x a m p l e 7-8. Bizet, Carmen, Prelude to Act Ш, mm. 1-13

Andantino quasi allegretto____________

C D -2/TR. 3 7

183

184

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

W ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
Beethoven, Leonore Overture No. 3, mm. 328-352
Hindemith, Symphonic Metamorphoses, third movement, mm. 31-48
The flute can effectively create slower, more intense long-note melodies. It is
important to remember that the flute requires a great deal of breath; therefore, it
is important to give the flutist time to breathe after especially difficult or sus­
tained passages. To avoid problems sustaining the long notes in measures 2, 4,
and 6, Brahms has the second flute hold the note while executing the crescendodiminuendo so that the first flute can breathe without diminishing the intensity
of the passage (Example 7-9). Here, the two parts must be dovetailed carefully
to create the illusion of a single flute performing the passage.

C D -2/ T R . 3 8

exam ple

7-9. Brahms, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 38-46

Pm andante

</>

C D -2/ T R . 3 9

exam ple

</>

</>

7-io. Piston, The Incredible Flutist, at [Ё]

Lento (J = 44)

ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY

Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, first movement, 1 m. after [39] to [41]

in d i v i d u a l

Wo o d w in d s

Articulation and Tonguing
The following passages may be played using either double tonguing or triple
tonguing. (See Chapter 6, pp. 172 for a discussion of double and triple tonguing.)
7 -ii. Mendelssohn, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 6-19
(triple tonguing)
exam ple

exam ple

7 - i 2 . Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, mm. 6-11 (double

tonguing)

В

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Debussy, La Mer, second movement, [24]—[28] (triple tonguing)
Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Overture, mm. 276-282 (double tonguing)
R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 179-183 (triple tonguing)

Trills and Tremolos
Trills and tremolos are very common in flute music. The following, however, are
difficult, if not impossible to play, and should be avoided:
exam ple

7- 1 3. Trills and Tremolos to Be Avoided

a. TRILLS

b. TREMOLO

C D -2/T R . 4 0
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

C D -2/T R . 4 0
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 6

185

186

th e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

Some observations: Some flutes have an added CS4 trill key to facilitate the exe­
cution of low trills. In general, all trills above high G6 are difficult to play. All
tremolos from and to low ЕЙ3 are weak and should not be used. And for best re­
sults, tremolos in the lowest octave that have an interval of more than a perfect
5th should not be written; in the higher registers, tremolos of a perfect 4th can
be safely played.

Harmonics
Although all the pitches above the open C l5 on the flute are overblown harmon­
ics, some of these notes have their own distinctive fingerings—especially in the
highest register. In order to get a special pale or white sound, a composer may
ask the flutist to play only actual harmonics. The notation sign for these notes is
the same as for strings: a small circle above the note. The pitch of a harmonic
will sound exactly as notated; the player fingers the pitch an octave (or in some
cases another partial) below the notated pitch and then overblows to sound the
desired note.
C D -2/TR. 4 1
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

exam ple

7 - 1 4 . Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, Suite No. 1, "Nocturne," mm. 5-11

Moderato (J = 72)

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part II, Introduction, mm. 38-51

Coloristic Effects
In Chapter 6 we described flutter tongue, multiphonics, microtones, key
clicks, and other coloristic effects. These techniques, which have proliferated
in the latter half of the twentieth century, are all readily executed on the flute.
Here are examples of two particular techniques: flutter tonguing and
multiphonics.

I n d i v id u a l W o o d w i n d s
e x a m p l e 7 - 1 6 . R. Strauss, Salome, Scene 2, a t [ i l l

AUabreve

accelerando

C D -2/ T R . 4 2

...............................

FL 1,2

example

7- 1 7. C. Polin, The Death ofProcris, instructions for multiphonics

multiphonic fingerings: ^

= G#

•'■v = tr. key

4
5

A
3

-4 ■

€

<
тф1
•
cu
о

тф2
•
"о*
•

тфЗ
•J

тф4

•s

•

•

•

Й

*
«I

тф5
<u
"С .
о

тфб

тф7

•:
q*

•2

О

Щ ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Berio, Sequenza for Flute (multiphonics, key clicks with tremolo, key clicks
without sound, key pops)
A. Gilbert, The Incredible Flute Music (multiphonics, quarter tones, and key clicks)
B. Jolas, Fusain (an excellent quarter-tone guide precedes the score;
multiphonics)
T. Musgrave, Narcissus (flute and digital delay; also available for clarinet and
digital delay)
H. Sollberger, Riding the Wind (buzz tones, whistle tones, key clicks,
multiphonics)

Multiple Flutes
During the Classical period, composers often altered the number of flutes they
employed in each work. Haydn usually used two, but felt the need for three in
his Creation. Mozart sometimes used only one, as did Schubert in his Fifth
Symphony. After Beethoven, a pair of flutes in an orchestral work was the rule.
Sometimes the second flute doubled on piccolo (in Rossini especially); in other
situations two independent flutes plus a piccolo were used. Three flutes became

187

188

th e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tr a tio n

the standard complement of most orchestras only in the middle of the nine­
teenth century, and a fourth and even a fifth member of the flute section, play­
ing two piccolos or a piccolo and an alto flute, have been used.
These multiple flutes either (1) double each other at the octave or the unison;
(2) are scored in parallel intervals; (3) play antiphonally one with the other; (4)
relieve one another in long, fast, or sustained passages; or (5) have completely
independent parts. Some examples of multiple flute passages are the following:
e x a m p l e 7 -1 e. Tchaikovsky, Nutcracker Suite, "Dance of the Toy Flutes," mm.
3-6 (parallel flute parts)

CD -2/T R. 4 3
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

Moderato assai
Fl. 1,2

tf
exam ple

C D -2/T R . 4 3
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 3

flute parts)

Picc.

/

12

7 - 1 9 . Ravel, Daphnis et Chloc ballet, at

nf

(independent and parallel

I n d iv id u a l W o o d w in d s

Я

ADDITIO NAL P A S S A G E S FO R ST U D Y

J. S. Bach, Cantata No. 106, Sonatina (2 flutes)
Chabrier, Espana, mm. 78-82 (2 flutes)
Debussy, Nocturnes, "Fetes," mm. 48-50 (3 flutes)
Mendelssohn, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Scherzo, mm. 1-8 (2 flutes)
Stravinsky, Fireworks, mm. 1-12 (2 flutes, piccolo)
Stravinsky, Petrushka, Third Tableau, "The Moor's Room," m. 5 after [62] to [бЗ]
(2 flutes)
Scorings for flute, piccolo, and alto flute that double other instruments and
use coupling will be discussed in Chapter 8.

P ic c o l o
Ottavino, Flauto piccolo (It.); Petite flute (Fr.); Kleine Flote (Ger.)
Each of the four main woodwind instruments-—flute, oboe, clarinet, and bas­
soon—has at least one auxiliary instrument that extends its range and, in many
cases, provides intensified coloristic effects at one or both ends of the registral
spectrum. In the modem orchestra, these instruments in many cases have be­
come full-fledged extensions of the principal woodwinds and are used as a mat­
ter of course.
The instrument that extends the flute range one octave up is the piccolo. In
so doing it extends the range of the entire orchestra, and for this reason has be­
come especially popular in twentieth-century scores. It works on the same prin­
ciple as the flute, with the same versatility and agility.
e x a m p l e

7-20. Range

W ritten

‘"1

Sounding one octave higher

The piccolo is a С instrument whose lowest note is D; there are no models
that can play any pitches below that note.*
e x a m p l e

7-21. Registral Characteristics
Bright

shrill

Quiet hauntingly
hollow sound

*Some military bands still use the outmoded Dl>piccolo, but this instrument has become ex­
ceedingly rare.

C D -RO M
C D -2
P IC C O L O

189

190

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Like the flute, the piccolo can be used effectively in its lowest octave only if
not much else is going on in the orchestra to drown out its haunting, hollow,
very soft sound in this register.
Above D5, the piccolo is very commanding, as can be seen in the following
examples:
exam p le

CD-2/TR. 4 4

7 - 22 . Mozart, Die Zauberftdte, Act П, "Alles fiihlt der Liebe Freuden,"

mm. 5-9
5

Allegro

Picc.

CD-2/TR. 4 5

e x a m p l e

7-23.

Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kiji, first movement, mm. 9-17

A lla m a r c la

Picc.

MIL Drum

Picc.

Л.

rf7>f г г r r

.

Щ.

----------------5-----------------------------------

p
Solo •

—e-r-i,------------------------------------------------

•

л з Л * Л * Л к 1 ___ й Л З Т Э Л J $___ i п Г Л П

Mil. Drum

>

Л ^ Л -

pp

15

■

i

1

—~~t •

CD-2/TR. 4 6

e x a m p l e

л £ Л П
7-24.

Л л Л

>

л Г Л Л

>

Л * Л

2 Picc.

m
a d d it io n a l

л Г Л П

Gluck, Iphigenie en Tauride, Act I, Scene 3, mm. 1-8

Allegro

I

у ------- i Г - N

- " • г г

Fl 1

MIL Drum

>-

•_ ■_

p a s s a g e s

f o r

s t u d y

Debussy, Iberia, [ЗЗ], mm. 1-6
Kodaly, Hdry Jdnos Suite, second movement, mm. 5-15

In d iv id u a l Wo o d w in d s

Prokofiev, Scythian Suite, third movement, mm 2-6,4 mm. after [51] to end
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 6, second movement, [Щ] to [53]
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 15, end of first movement
Smetana, The Bartered Bride, Overture, mm. 427-448
Stravinsky, Petrushka, First Tableau, "The Shrovetide Fair," mm. 9-4 before (l7l
Stravinsky, Petrushka, First Tableau, "Russian Dance," mm. 11-17 after [42]
(2 piccolos and 3 flutes)
In its upper register the piccolo sounds very piercing and resembles a whis­
tle. Although many composers have used this sound to good advantage, it is
important not to overuse the instrument in its extreme upper register, for the
sound becomes very tiresome to listen to and very exhausting to play.

A lto F lu t e

CD -RO M

Flauto contralto (It.); FlUte en sol (Fr.); Altfldte (Ger.)

A L T O FL U T E

CD-2

The alto flute, the first extension of the flute family downward, came into
prominence in the last decade of the nineteenth century and was made popular
by the scores of Stravinsky and Ravel in particular. In many orchestration texts,
as well as some scores, the alto flute is called the "bass flute," but that is an erro­
neous designation. By now it has become an accepted member of the symphony
orchestra, although few scores ask for it. Its tube is quite a bit thicker and longer
than that of the regular flute, and its body is either straight, like the flute's, or
bent 180 degrees, like the bass flute's.
e x a m p l e 7 - 2 5 . Range
Written

f>

/ —

Sounding

The alto flute is a transposing instrument; its mechanism and fingering are
the same as on the С flute, but the alto flute is in G and therefore sounds a per­
fect 4th lower than written.
exam ple

7 - 2 6 . Registral Characteristics
Ordinary and without the
brilliance of the flute

Even though all flute techniques can be executed on the alto flute, they re­
quire more breath because of this instrument's larger size and the greater diam­
eter of its tube. Its low notes are much richer and have more carrying power, but
the upper register is quite ordinary and without much brilliance. If one elects to
use an alto flute, one should certainly exploit its lower register, for the regular

191

192

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

flute and the piccolo are capable of covering the upper part of the register as
adequately.
Here are some examples in which the alto flute is used to its best advantage,
as a solo instrument or in combination with other flutes.
C D -2/T R . 4 7
IN D EX 1

10:00

e x a m p le 7 - 2 7 . Holst, The Planets, "Saturn," m m . 53-62

Andante
Alt. FI.

PP

58

C D -2/T R . 4 7
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 9

-- ---- --------------

e x a m p le 7 - 2 8 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I, "Rondes printaniferes,"

at [561
TranquiUo (J = 108)

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
S. Albert, In Concordiam (throughout)
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, Suite No. 1,5 mm. after [T] (piccolo, two flutes, alto
flute), and Suites No. 1 and 2 (alto flute throughout)
Sessions, The Black Maskers (throughout)
Varese, Amiriques, beginning (solo alto flute)

in d i v id u a l W o o d w in d s

B A S S FL U T E
Flauto basso (It.); Flute bass (Fr .); Bassflote (G er.)

Ever since the middle of the nineteenth century, flutists and flute builders have
acknowledged the need for a bass instrument in the family. Theobald Boehm
was the first to try constructing one, but the result was too unwieldy. It was not
until 1930 that a completely practical instrument was built by the flute makers
Rudall, Carte and Company based on the Boehm mechanical system. The upper
part of the instrument is bent 180 degrees below the head joint, so that the main
tube crosses the right side of the player's body. An adjustable fight metal
bracket allows the player to balance the instrument on the right thigh when sit­
ting down, which makes for a very comfortable playing position.
exam ple

7 - 2 9 . Range

This transposing instrument sounds an octave lower than written.
The bass flute is no more difficult to play than the alto flute, but because of
its novelty and high cost few orchestras have one and few composers score for
it. It can be found, however, in solo and chamber music and in some film and
band scores. It is most effective in its rich low register, where its unique warm,
hollow sound is unmatched.
Here is an example of a bass flute passage:
e x a m p l e 7 - 3 0 . Zandonai, Francesca da Rimini, mm. 186-190

C D -2/T R . 4 8

Slowly

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY
P. Chihara, Willow, Willow (bass flute throughout)

Obo e
Hautbois (F r .); Oboe or Hoboe (G er.)

The oboe, basically a lyrical instrument, has possibly the most individual per­
sonality of all the woodwinds. Many people have described this double-reed in­
strument as the prima donna of the woodwind choir. This is not due to its

CD-ROM
C D -2
OBOE

193

194

th e

oboe

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

oboe
d'amore

English horn

bass oboe
(baritone)

heckelphone

position in the section but rather because it is such a temperamental instrument
to play.
The most volatile part of the oboe is its reed, which is inserted at the top of
the pipe. All professional oboe players make their own reeds, which must be ex­
actly right if the player is to perform successfully. The reed must be thin enough
to vibrate easily but not so thin as to impede the player's ability to control the
tone quality and pitch. It must always be moist; it is affected by temperature
changes and atmospheric conditions.
Professional oboists develop an extraordinary ability to sustain notes for a
long time or to play quite lengthy passages in one breath (letting the air out very
slowly until the next breathing point). However, because of the sensitivity of the
reed, the instrument requires great control of the embouchure. The breath and
embouchure control required make frequent rest periods mandatory.

Range and Registral Characteristics
EXAMPLE 7-31 . Range

The most effective range on the oboe is from F4 to C6; for a thin, softly piercing
effect, the oboe is most beautifully scored in the range between this high С and

I n d iv id u a l . W o o d w i n d s

the F above it. These notes, however, are quite hard to control, especially for
nonprofessional oboists.*
e x a m p l e

7-32.

Registral Characteristics
Pinched and

In terms of registral characteristics, one can strike a contrast with the flute.
Whereas the flute gets more brilliant as it goes up in register, the oboe loses its
pungency. Conversely, the flute is weak in its lowest octave, but the oboe has a
thick, full sound and tends to honk in the lowest 5th of its range. One should
never write a pianissimo for the oboe in this register, even for the best players.

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are some examples from the orchestral repertoire showcasing the oboe's
bountiful solo opportunities, which it has enjoyed since the Baroque period:
e x a m p l e

7-33. Bach, Brandenburg Concerto No. 2, second movement, mm. 9-23

C D -2/T R . 4 9

Andante

e x a m p l e

7-34. Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4, second movement, beginning
Andantino in modo di canzone

"The high A6 shown in Example 7-31, which is the top pitch available on the oboe, is ex­
tremely difficult to produce; even many professional oboists will not play it. However, some
twentieth-century composers have asked for this pitch: Milton Babbitt, in Relata П, and the
German composer Manfred Trojahn, in his Divertissement for oboe and orchestra, which uses
the upper range of the instrument almost exclusively in the first movement, with many trills on
high G and Gtf. Today, certain oboe players specialize in producing these very high pitches.

C D -2/T R . 5 0

195

196

t h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

exam ple

C D -2/ T R . 5 1

7 -3 5 . Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, third movement, at |~4~|
Lento

К

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Babbitt, Relata II (extends oboe range to high A)
Bart6k, Concerto for Orchestra, fourth movement, mm. 4-12
Beethoven, Symphony No. 3, second movement, mm. 8-12
Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, third movement, mm. 91-98
Bizet, Symphony in C, second movement, mm. 8-19
Rossini, La Scala di seta, Overture, mm. 37-53
Schubert, Symphony No. 8 ("Unfinished"), second movement, mm. 207-221
Schubert, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 8-24
Schumann, Symphony No. 2, third movement, mm. 8-19

Articulation and Tonguing
Because of the thin, flexible oboe reed, it is possible to single tongue staccato
passages very quickly; but double and triple tonguing are seldom, if ever, called
for. Extremely fast, repeated notes are not idiomatic, even though some com­
posers have required them; notice that in Example 6-10 (p. 173) Mendelssohn
writes the rapid § repeated figure for all the winds except oboes. That the oboe
does not easily speak rapid repeated notes does not imply that the instrument is
not agile. On the contrary, in the hands of a good performer it can be made to
play almost any run and fairly large skips.
C D -2/ T R . 5 2

exam ple

192-200

7 - 3 6 . Mozart, Sinfonia concertante, K. 297, third movement, mm.

in d i v i d u a l

Wo o d w in d s

e x a m p l e 7 -3 7 . Oboe Passage with Skips

C D -2/ T R . 5 3

Trills and Tremolos
A list of trill and tremolo do's and donTs for the oboe would depend very much
on the model of the instrument and the proficiency of the player. On newer in­
struments trills and tremolos are possible almost anywhere except between the
bottom Bl>3 to B^3. Half-step trills from C4 to С Л4 are also not advisable. In addi­
tion, all large-interval tremolos above the staff are quite difficult, as are tremolos
of more than a perfect 5th anywhere on the instrument.

Coloristic Effects
In some contemporary scores, the oboist is required to execute key clicks and to
blow air through the tube without producing a pitch. In other instances a com­
poser asks the performer to remove the reed from the instrument and blow
through it (Example 7-38a). Alternatively, if one simply wants to simulate an
airflow without pitch, one asks the performer to remove the reed and blow
through the pipe (Example 7-38b).
"Nonpitched" Passages for Oboe

7-38.

exam ple

C D -2/T R . 5 4

a.
Blow through reed only
Ob.

Bending the pitch up or down a quarter tone is also a common special tech­
nique. This effect can be accomplished by changing the embouchure or pulling
the reed out of the mouth slightly.
exam ple

7-39. Quarter Tones on Oboe

C D -2/T R . 5 5

Bend tones
y Q

,

.'H f c

| "—

>
J

-J

!

Even though multiphonics are quite successful on the oboe, they often sound
strident. In addition, not all oboists are able to produce them. A composer

197

198

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

should consult with a performer about the best available multiphonic and its
fingering before writing it into a score. The fingering should always accompany
the multiphonic.
(See also Example 8-43, pp. 288, and 8-45, pp. 290.)

Multiple Oboes
The standard complement of oboes in a symphony orchestra is usually two,
plus an English hom. Sometimes this complement is enlarged to three oboes or
more, plus an English hom. In the early Classical orchestra, two oboes were al­
most always present and most often had the tasks of sustaining tonic and domi­
nant pedal notes (frequently in octaves with two French horns), and playing
melodic passages. Later on, they were used in many different ways, some of
which are shown in the following passages:
7 - 4 0 . Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, fifth movement, mm. 460-467

C D -2/ T B . 5 6

exam ple

C D -2/T R . 5 7

e x a m p l e 7 - 4 1 . Kodaly,Hary Janos Suite, second movement, mm. 47-51

Allegro
2 0b.

C D -2/ T R . 5 8

e x a m p l e 7 -4 2 . Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, fifth movement, mm. 249-254

Allegro
Ob. 1 , 2, 3

When the oboe is used as a doubling instrument, its nasal quality adds artic­
ulation and a biting edge to passages. In this capacity, the oboe should be re­
served for a significant melodic line so that the instrument that is doubled will
not be overshadowed by the oboe. This aspect will be discussed more fully in
the next chapter.

ЦГ a d d i t i o n a l p a s s a g e s

for stu d y

Stravinsky, Petrushka, First Tableau, "Russian Dance," [37]—[39] (three oboes and
English hom), and Fourth Tableau, "Dance of the Nursemaids," m. 9 after

I n d i v id u a l Wo o d w i n d s

E n g l is h Ho r n
Como Inglese (It.); Cor anglais (Fr.); Englisches Нот (Ger.)
There are no standard instruments in the oboe family that extend the range up­
ward, but at least three extend the range downward. The English hom, the alto
instrument of the family, is the most popular and works on the same principle
as the oboe. It is an instrument with a conical tube and double reed, with both
the tube and the reed slightly longer than those of the oboe. Added to the flared
part of the oboe tube is a bulb-shaped bell (d'amore bell), which gives the
English hom a more sonorous, melancholy sound, rather like a quail.
There is a great deal of conjecture about the name English hom. The instru­
ment is not English, nor does it resemble the homs in the brass family. The most
plausible— though partial—explanation for its name is that its original French
designation was "cor angld" because of the bent shape of some of the older in­
struments. The French word angle was then mistranslated as anglais, or English.
The false translation has prevailed—even though the modem instrument is not
bent—and it is universally known by the name English hom.
Although the English hom (or, more exactly, the oboe da caccia [see p. 203])
was often used in the Baroque era, it was rather neglected from the time of
Haydn to that of Wagner, especially in Germany. Notable exceptions may be
found in the works of Berlioz and Meyerbeer. From the middle of the nine­
teenth century on, the English hom enjoyed a lofty position in the orchestral
repertoire.

Range and Registral Characteristics
exam ple

7 - 4 3 . Range

The English hom is a transposing instrument that sounds a perfect 5th lower
than written.
exam ple

7 - 4 4 . Registral Characteristics

The registral properties of the English hom are much like those of the
oboe: the sound gets thinner as it gets higher. In its upper register, the English
horn sounds so much like the oboe that it loses its personality. However, its
lowest 5th or 6th is beautifully rich and expressive, with tremendous carrying
power.

CO -RO M
C D -2
E N G L ISH HORN

199

200

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Representative Passages from the Literature
Countless examples in the orchestral repertoire feature English hom solos both
a cappella and accompanied. Here are some outstanding ones:
C D -2/ T R . 5 9

exam ple

7-45 . Berlioz, Roman Carnival Overture, mm. 21-37

C D -2/ T R . e o

exam ple

7 - 4 6 . Wagner, Tristan und Isolde, Act Ш, Scene 1, mm. 5-11

з
Eng. Hn. solo
p

C D -2/ T R . 6 1

cresc.

exam p le

f

d im .

7-47. Sibelius, The Swan ofTuonela, mm. 18-32
Andante molto sostenuto

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Berlioz, Symphonic fantastique, opening of the third movement (duet between
oboe and English hom)
Copland, Quiet City, mm. 22-27
Debussy, Nocturnes, "Nuages," mm. 5-8
Dvorak, Symphony No. 9 ("From the New World"), second movement, mm. 7-18
Franck, Symphony in D minor, second movement, mm. 16-32
Rossini, William Tell, Overture, mm. 176-180
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I, "L*Adoration de la terre," mm. 14-20
Tchaikovsky, Romeo and juliet, mm. 183-189

I n d i v i d u a l . Wo o d w i n d s

Trills and Tremolos
The same trill and tremolo constraints that concern the oboe also apply to the
English horn; tremolos should be confined to small intervals, especially when
they occur above the staff.

Coloristic Effects
The English horn is as agile as the oboe and can easily execute ah virtuosic fig­
ures with the rest of the woodwinds, including many recently invented coloris­
tic effects. The great virtuoso Heinz Holhger has written and commissioned
many works that make use of multiphonics and microtonal sounds, mainly for
solo literature.

O t h e r Me m b e r s

o f the

O b o e F a m il y

Four other members of the oboe family deserve mention. Although they are not
used very frequently, the composer or orchestrator should have some superfi­
cial knowledge of their sound and notation.

Oboe d'amore
Hautbois d'amour (Fr.)
The oboe d'amore is the mezzo-soprano instrument of the oboe family. This in­
strument was very popular in the Baroque period, but as a larger sound was
needed for the larger orchestras and halls, it fell out of favor and was sup­
planted by both the oboe and English horn. Although it is resurfacing in some
twentieth-century composers' works, it is still not widely used in an orchestral
setting.
e x a m p l e 7 -4 8 . Range
Written

Soundina

The oboe d'amore is a transposing instrument, and sounds a minor 3rd
lower than written. Occasionally, Bach and other Baroque composers notated
the actual sounding pitches of the instrument (for instance, in Bach's Christmas
Oratorio). Today's composer or orchestrator notates the pitches that are played.
The sound of the oboe d'amore is much gentler than that of the oboe, but
since it has a bulblike bell like the English horn, its lower notes are full, dark,
and beautiful. The upper register is quite thin and almost useless, although in
his Sinfonia domestica Strauss calls for an F6. Gunther Schuller writes consistently
above the staff for it, but he doubles its part with other instruments in his
Concerto No. 2 for Orchestra.

202

th e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

Here are some examples of the oboe d'amore as a solo instrument, as well as
within an orchestral framework:
C D -2/T R. 6 2

CD-2/ t r . 6 3

e x a m p l e 7 - 49 . Bach, Christmas Oratorio, Sinfonia, m m . 9 -1 1 (flutes, strings, and
continuo not recorded)

e x a m p l e 7 - 5 0 . R. Strauss, Sinfonia domestica, mm. 156-164 (violins not
recorded) and mm. 209-215

I n d iv id u a l W o o d w in d s

В

A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E S FO R ST U D Y

Bach, Cantata No. 37 ("Gottes Zeit"), "Der Glaube schlafft der Seele Flugel,"
mm. 1-6
Debussy, Images, "Gigues," ГТо] to ГТП
Mahler, Sieben Lieder aus letzten Zeit, "Mittemacht"
Ravel, Bolero, mm. 77-84
G. Schuller, Concerto for Orchestra No. 2, second movement, mm. 76-77
R. Strauss, Der Rosenkavalier (throughout)

Oboe da caccia
The direct antecedent of the English horn was the oboe da caccia ("hunting
oboe"), which was widely used throughout the Baroque period. It, too, was a
transposing instrument, sounding a perfect 5th lower than written. Bach often
notated this instrument at pitch in the alto clef (see Example 7-49), whereas the
more antiquated French notation used the mezzo-soprano clef. Music for this
practically obsolete instrument, if used today, should be notated as for the
English horn, since it has the same range and registral characteristics as that in­
strument. With medieval and Renaissance music growing in popularity, the oboe
da caccia, as well as the shawm (which came in at least seven sizes in the six­
teenth century), is enjoying a renaissance.

Heckelphone
The heckelphone is named after its inventor, Wilhelm Heckel, an instrument
maker in Biebrich, Germany. He perfected this pseudo-bass oboe around 1904.
It sounds an octave lower than the regular oboe and adds a semitone, A2, to the
lowest part of its range.
exam p le 7-si.

Range

Sounding an octave lower

The Baritone or Bass Oboe
The baritone oboe, sometimes called the bass oboe, has the same range and trans­
position as the heckelphone and a very similar sound; the difference is in
appearance. The heckelphone was made by a bassoon maker; hence, the instru­
ment resembles a bassoon, whereas the baritone oboe was manufactured by an
oboe maker and looks very much like a big English horn, since it also has a
d'amore bell.

203

204

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tra tio n

The heckelphone and the baritone oboe provide an excellent bass for the
oboe family, but as in the case of the bass flute, very few instruments are extant,
and very few orchestras would be able to supply one if it was called for in a
score. Frederick Delius and Richard Strauss (in his operas Elektra and Salome)
are two of the rare composers who have used the heckelphone. All parts may be
performed equally well on the bass oboe.
C D -2/T R. 6 4

e x a m p l e 7 - 5 2 . Delius, Dance Rhapsody, m m . 1 - 1 0 (English hom, cello, and
double bass not recorded)

C D -2/T R. 6 5

exam ple

7-53. R. Strauss, Salome, at |
Andante

ADDITIONAL PASSAGE FOR STUDY

Chavez, Sinfonia de Antigona (throughout)

I n d iv id u a l W o o d w in d s

C l a r in e t
C larinetto (I t .); Clarinette (F r .); Klarinette (G er.)

205

CD-RO M
C D -2
C L A R IN E T

The clarinet consists of a cylindrical tube with an added bell,
which flares slightly more than that of the oboe. A mouth­
piece with a single reed is the uppermost joint of the five
sections that make up the instrument. This mouthpiece is
sometimes referred to as the beak.
Since all clarinets have the same fingering system, clar­
inetists are able to play all instruments in the family, regard­
less of their size or transposition. The modern clarinet's size
dictates its particular tuning or transposition: Bl>, El>, or A*; if
a Bt> clarinet plays a melody written in the key of C, the
melody will sound in Bk If this melody is played on an A
clarinet, it will sound in A; the Et clarinet will sound in that
key. The composer or orchestrator needs to be well ac­
quainted with each instrument's transposition; you may
wish to review pp. 167-170 as you read the following sec­
tions on the different clarinets.

Edclarinet

Bt clarinet

A clarinet

T h e С clarinet is rarely used today.

Et alto
clarinet

basset horn
(in F)

Bl>bass
clarinet

B\>contrabass
clarinet

206

T h e s tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

Range and Registral Characteristics
All clarinets have the same written range.
e x a m p l e 7 -54 . Range

The lowest written note on all clarinets (with the exception of specially con­
structed bass clarinets) is E3:

_
. The sound produced when that pitch is
XT
played depends, of course, on the particular instrument being used. (Please
refer back to the transposition chart on p. 169.)
One peculiarity in fingering exists on all clarinets: it is called "the break" and
occurs between ВИ and ВИ. The Bl> is played with no keys depressed or holes
covered (the entire tube is open), but the B1! is played with all holes covered (the
entire tube is closed)—except the vent hole, which is opened by the left thumb
depressing the register key on the back of the instrument. The finger transition
between these two notes presents problems for all but the most expert players.
Although the same phenomenon occurs in the other wind instruments, the ef­
fect is less pronounced because they all overblow at the octave whereas the clar­
inet overblows at the 12th. As the performer becomes more experienced, the
problem with coordinating the break disappears.
e x a m p l e 7 -5 5 . Registral Characteristics
Piercing, shrill
“Throat to n e s,rath er pate

Clarino register,
b righ t, incisive, expressive
Chalumeau register,
deep and rich

The clarinet has the most homogeneous range of any of the woodwinds, no
matter what part of its register it plays in. A good clarinetist can play the entire
dynamic spectrum, from the faintest pianissimo to the most forceful fortissimo,
beginning with the lowest and extending to the highest range of the instrument.
Some of the clarinet's registers are designated with names that recall the an­
cestry of the clarinet family. The lowest register is called the chalumeau register
after the medieval instrument, a single-reed cylindrical pipe construction ante­
dating the modem clarinet. The third and widest register is called the clarino
register, after the Italian term for the Baroque trumpet that played the high

I n d i v id u a l Wo o d w i n d s

parts. The word clarinet is a diminutive form of clarino; when the clarinet first
entered the symphony orchestra in the eighteenth century it was called clarinetta
(little trumpet), since the parts assigned to it resembled those for the clarino
trumpet. The designation persisted, even though the instrument began to de­
velop a very different personality in the nineteenth century—so much so, in
fact, that nineteenth-century composers thought of the clarinet as the nightin­
gale of the orchestra.
Both Bb and A clarinets are used in the modem symphony orchestra; the de­
termination of which one to use depends most often on the key of the work. For
predominantly flat keys, one uses the Bb clarinet; for sharp keys, the A clarinet
serves best. Nevertheless, if we were to make a statistical survey of twentiethcentury scores, we would find a greater preponderance of Bb clarinets, regard­
less of keys used, especially since the tonal element has been so obscured in
much of this music.

Articulation and Tonguing
The following examples show the clarinet as a most agile and versatile instru­
ment, equally effective in lyrical and fast, virtuosic passages in all registers. The
clarinet's staccato, though very dry and sharp, is less pointed than that of the
oboe, but perhaps a bit more articulate than that of the flute. Single tonguing is
mostly used, but some clarinetists are able to perform double and triple tonguing.

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are some representative clarinet passages from the orchestral literature:
exam ple

7 - 5 6 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 5, first movement, mm. 1-10

e x a m p l e 7 -57 . Rimsky-Korsakov, Le Coq d'or Suite, 33-36 mm. after [Л
cadenza

d jS c

CD-2/TR. 6 6

CD-2/TR. 6 7

207

208

T h e S tu dy o f o r c h e s t r a t i o n

C D -2/ T R . 6 8

C D -2/T R . 6 9

e x a m p l e 7 -5 8 . Wagner, Tannhauser, Overture, mm. 295-298

e x a m p l e 7 -59 . Stravinsky, L'Histoiredu soldat, "The Soldier's March," mm.

47-52

a d d itio n a l p a s s a g e s

FOR STUDY

Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, second movement, mm. 72-77
Copland, El Salon Mexico, mm. 294-308
Kodaly, Dances ofGalanta, mm. 43-57
Mendelssohn, Symphony No. 3, second movement, mm. 8-16
Mussorgsky, Night on the Bare Mountain, mm. 432-440
Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 82-88
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6, first movement, mm. 325-335
Thomas, Mignon, Overture, mm. 1-11
Weber, Oberon, Overture, mm. 64-72

The Nietite Attack and Subtones
Two effects that can be achieved on the clarinet better than on any other wood­
wind instrument are the niente attack and the playing of subtones. Example 7-60
shows a niente attack, in which the tone starts from almost complete silence,
without articulation, grows to a piano dynamic, and then fades away to nothing.
In the notation, the "N" indicates such an attack to the performer:
C D -2/T R . 7 0

exam ple

7 - 6 0 . Niente Attack

Example 7-61 shows the extremely soft dynamic that is often called for in many
recent scores. Variously called subtone, echo tone, or an indication to play sotto
voce, this dynamic can only be played by the clarinet:
C D -2/T R . 7 1

EXAMPLE 7-61 . Subtones

In d i v i d u a l W o o d w i n d s

Subtones in the low chalumeau register, which are phenomenally quiet and
ethereal, are favorites of many contemporary composers.
exam ple

7 - 6 2 . Subtones in the Chalumeau Register

C D -2

rm. 7 2

Slowly

•The symbol f denotes a bent tone, as discussed below. See also Example 7-39 on p. 197 above.

Trills and Tremolos
There are no trills or tremolos that cannot be negotiated on the clarinet. The
larger-interval tremolos are more difficult above the staff, but are certainly pos­
sible. Here is a passage with both trills and tremolos:
exam ple

7 - 6 3 . Kodaly, Psalmus hungaricus, 2-7 m m . after L

C D -2/T R . 7 3

Coloristic Effects
The ease with which the clarinet can execute glissandi between notes has been
demonstrated in Chapter 6. Playing a glissando over the "break," however, is
difficult; and it is easier to perform glissandi above the break than below.
Remember that glissandi can only be played upward. A player can "bend" the
tone downward, but that is accomplished by the embouchure alone and should
only be used if microtones are desired. In the following example, bent tones are
indicated with the symbol t .
exam ple

7 - 6 4 . Bending the Tone

Key clicks, blowing air through the tube, and playing pitches through the
mouthpiece separated from the rest of the instrument are common contempo­
rary devices, as are multiphonics for the clarinet. Notation for these devices,
however, has yet to be standardized. Therefore, the composer must not expect
every orchestral clarinetist to play all these new techniques successfully, and in
addition, should describe in words, besides symbols, exactly what should
happen.

C D -2/T R . 7 4

209

210

th e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

Multiple Clarinets
Like flutes and oboes, clarinets generally come in pairs. But in the enlarged or­
chestra since Wagner, as many as three or more clarinets may be called for, in
addition to the "piccolo" clarinets, bass clarinets, alto clarinets, basset homs,
and even contrabass clarinets.
The clarinets in multiples may play in unison, alternate parts, or two or
more completely independent parts in different registers.
example

C D -2/T R. 7 5

7 - 6 5 . Mendelssohn, Fingal's Cave or Hebrides Overture, m m . 202-214

Allegro moderate
2 ACl.

tranq. assai

exam ple

C D -2TT R . 7 6

7-66. Mozart, Symphony No. 39, third movement, Trio, mm. 1-8

5ffl? SET ® Г ШЕГ ffigf НЕТ Щ З
example

C D -2/T R. 7 7

I

7 - 6 7 . Mahler, Symphony No. 7, fifth movement, 6-9 mm. after |252

ADDITIONAL p a s s a g e s

for s t u d y

Mozart, Cost'fan tutte. Act I, "Come scoglio immoto resta," mm. 15-19; and Act
П, Scene 4, mm. 1-24
Stravinsky, Petrushka, Second Tableau, "Petrushka's Room," at [49], mm. 1-4
Wagner, Siegfried, Act Ш, Scene 3, mm. 93-100

In d i v i d u a l Wo o d w i n d s

“PICCO LO ” C LA R IN ET: C LA R IN ET IN D OR E t
The two small clarinets that extend the range of the clarinet family upward
stand in the same pitch relationship as the Bt and A instruments and were cre­
ated for similar considerations of key. However, the clarinet in D is seldom, if
ever, used today, and therefore we recommend that all "piccolo" clarinet parts
be written for the Et clarinet. Both the D and El>clarinets have the same mechan­
ical and fingering systems, a factor that facilitates playing parts originally writ­
ten for the D clarinet on the El> clarinet; the player simply transposes all pitches
down a half step.
exam ple

7-68. Range

The following points should be taken into consideration when writing for the
"piccolo" clarinet, particularly since it is smaller in size than the Bl>and A clarinets:
1. When a Bl> or A clarinet player has to switch to Et clarinet, be sure he or she
has enough time to change instruments and allow for adjustment.
2. The "piccolo" clarinet is more difficult to play than its siblings; since it re­
quires greater effort, frequent rest periods are recommended.
3. It is constructed in such a way as to emphasize its upper register, which is
quite shrill. The safest upper note is written G6, although A above that is cer­
tainly possible. Its lower range is quite thin.
4. The El> clarinet is used a great deal as a high solo instrument, having such a
penetrating tone in that range, but its personality mixes well with the other
clarinets as a contrapuntal or harmonic partner. This clarinet is an excellent
doubler of the flute, violin, and even high trumpet.
5. It has an incisive staccato and an effective legato, and is able to perform any
trills, tremolos, and special effects desired of the other clarinets. The Ei> clar­
inet also is capable of a full range of dynamics anywhere in its range, except
possibly in the last major 3rd of its extreme high register.
Examples of the El>clarinet from the literature include:
exam ple

7 -6 9 . Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, fifth movement, mm. 40-45

C D -2/T R . 7 8
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

211

212

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -2/ T R . 7 8
IN D EX 2 0 : 1 1

I

C D -2/ T R . 7 8
IN D EX 3 0 : 3 1

I

e x a m p l e 7 -7 0 . R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, 43 mm. before the end

exam ple

7-7 1 . Mahler, Symphony No. 3, first movement, at ГШ
Heavy
aufgehobener Schalltriehter *

'M ahler uses this effect ("bells up") frequently for all clarinets.

Additional citations from music literature may be found on p. 214.

CD-RO M
C D -2
B A S S CLA RIN ET

B a s s C l a r in e t
Clarinetto basso (I t .); Clarinette basse (F r .); Bassklarinette (G er.)

The bass clarinet is most commonly a Bl> instrument, although composers in the
past have asked for a bass clarinet in A. For a long time E3 was the lowest note
on the Bt> bass clarinet, but composers had long desired to expand its range
downward, and finally an Et was added to the instrument. In the 1930s and
1940s Russian composers in particular called for a further expansion of its
range, resulting in a bass clarinet whose sound extended down to low C2. Today
one can reasonably expect eveiy bass clarinet to have a low El>; but since not all
orchestras have instruments with the С extension, writing for the instrument in
this very low range can be risky.
e x a m p le
W ritten

7 - 7 2 . Range
л

Soundina

When notating a bass clarinet part the composer or orchestrator has to de­
cide which clef to use. In late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century scores—
especially those in Germany—the instrument is notated in the bass clef (see
Examples 7-74 through 7-77) and all pitches sound a major 2nd below what is
notated. During the nineteenth century but especially into the twentieth, the
French started notating the Bl>bass clarinet in the treble clef (whereby all pitches
sound a major 9th below what is notated), and this method has now become
widely adopted. We recommend that the French method be used when creating
scores today.

in d i v i d u a l

Wo o d w in d s

The bass clarinet has essentially the same register designations as the Bt>
clarinet.
e x a m p l e 7 -7 3 . Registral Characteristics

Here are some special considerations to remember when writing for the bass
clarinet:
1. Because this is a bass instrument and the bass member of the clarinet family,
the chalumeau register, which spans the first octave and a third, has the
most distinctive and warmest tone. It can sound mysterious, shadowy, or
sinister, but as it goes up it loses some of this quality.
2. The clarino register spans A4 to G5.
3. Although the upper notes, from G5 to C6 or even E6, are thin and very diffi­
cult to produce, they are often called for, particularly in modem scores.
The bass clarinet can play lyrical legato as well as all kinds of staccato
passages, but because of its size it speaks a bit less incisively than its smaller
relatives.
Here are some examples from the literature that demonstrate the different
registers as well as the bass clarinet in combination with other clarinets:
example

7-74. Wagner, Die Gotterdammerung, Act I, Scene 3, mm. 1-13
Im Zeitmass noch mehr zuruckhaJtend

BkCL

BbBs. Cl.

BtCl.

Bt Bs. Cl.

C D -2/T R. 7 9

213

214

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -2/ T R . 8 0

e x a m p le

7 - 75 . Wagner, Tristan und Isolde, Prelude to Act П, mm. 1 3 -2 0

Moderate
ЮBs. CL
p tu p

----- ----v*

CD-2JTR. 81

C D -2/TR 8 2

—
—
0—

e x a m p l e 7 - 7 6 . Stravinsky, Le Sucre du printemps, Part I, "LAdoration de la
terre," mm. 28-31

e x a m p l e 7-77. R. Strauss, Salome, at

Ziemlich langsam
Bl Bs. CL

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Barber, Medea, "Dance of Vengeance" (both Et and bass clarinets)
Berg, Wozzeck, Act Ш, Scene 1 (two Et clarinets in unison)
Carter, Concerto for Orchestra (1969) (both El>and bass clarinets)
Chavez, Sinfonia India (both Et>and bass clarinets)
J. Corigliano, Pied Piper Fantasy; Altered States (both El>and bass clarinets)
P. Glass, Symphony No. 2 (both ti> and bass clarinets)
J. Harbison, Symphony No. 2; Ulysses (both El>and bass clarinets)
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe ballet, 5 mm. before |202| to 1202] (El>clarinet)
R. Strauss, Ein Heldenleben, mm. 124-129 (El>clarinet)
R. Strauss, Don Quixote, Variation I, mm. 2-4 (bass clarinet)

I n d iv id u a l W o o d w in d s

Ot h e r Me m b e r s

of the

C l a r in e t F a m il y

Alto Clarinet in Et
Clarinetto alto (It .); Clarinette alto (F r .); Altklarinette (G er.)

The alto clarinet in Et is seldom, if ever, used in the orchestra, but it has become
a more or less regular member of the standard band and wind ensemble. It has
the same fingering and mechanical system as the $> or A clarinets, but only the
lowest two octaves of its range speak effectively.
e x a m p l e 7 - 7 8 . Range
Sounding
--- --------------------------------------------

f.

------------

Because its sound is rather unassertive, the alto clarinet is most useful for
filling in the harmony and for playing soft solo passages. Good performers on
the instrument can play legato as well as staccato passages; long, lyrical
melodies are as easy for them as fast, agile runs.
Since so few orchestral scores have made use of this instrument, we will give
a passage from the band and wind ensemble literature:
e x a m p l e 7 - 79 . I. Dahl, Sinfonietta, second movement, mm. 1-5

Andante con moto (1 = 63-60)
B A lt .C t .

Basset Hom
Como di bassetto (It .); Cor de basset (Fr .); Bassetthom (G er.)

The basset horn is sometimes described as the orchestral tenor clarinet. Like the
English hom, it always transposes a perfect 5th down; it also is certainly not a
hom but is so called probably because of its sickle shape. The term basset may be
interpreted as a diminutive form of bass. Invented in about 1770 by the
Mayrhofers, this instrument is rarely called for in post-Strauss twentiethcentury scores. However, basset horns are manufactured today so that the
works of the past can be performed on instruments for which they were origi­
nally written.
e x a m p l e 7 - 8 0 . Range
W ritten

Sounding

CD-2/TR. 8 3

215

216

t h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tra tio n

The bore of the basset horn is somewhat narrower than that of the alto or
bass clarinet, producing a distinctive timbre described by one musician as por­
traying "unctuous seriousness." Here is -an example of the basset horn in the or­
chestral literature:
exam ple

c d -2/ t r . 8 4

22

7 - s i . R. Strauss, Capriccio,Scene 2, mm. 22-26

Allegro moderate

B asset Hn.

Я

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Mozart, Clarinet Concerto, K. 622 (originally written for basset clarinet")
Mozart, Die Zauberflote, Act П, "O Isis und Osiris"
Mozart, Requiem, Agnus Dei, "Dona eis requiem," mm. 14-17
R. Strauss, Der Rosenkavalier, Act I, Introduction
Stravinsky, Threni (calls for alto clarinet or basset hom)

Contrabass Clarinet
This clarinet, in Bl> or Et, has a range an octave lower than that of the bass clar­
inet. In distinction to most clarinets, which are made of wood (except for the
bass clarinet and alto clarinet bells), the contrabass clarinet is made of metal and
is folded in on itself, thereby looking like a diminutive contrabassoon.*
exam ple
Bt: W ritten

7 - 8 2 . Range
XX

Sounding

The instrument has a very rich sound, especially in its lowest register, but it
does not have the agility of the bass clarinet. Since the contrabass clarinet is of
rather recent vintage, it does not appear in many orchestral scores, but is used
frequently in works for band and wind ensemble.

The contrabass clarinet in Et is often referred to as the contra alto clarinet, and is usually
made of rosewood rather than metal.

I n d iv id u a l W o o d w in d s

217

Here is a passage that uses the Bl> contrabass clarinet:
e x a m p l e

7-63.

G. Schuller, Concerto for Orchestra No. 2, second movement,

CD-2/TR. 8 S

mm. 113-120
Moderate
»Cbs. CL

Saxo ph o n e

C D -RO M

Sassofono (It .); Saxophon (Ger.)

A LTO SA X O P H O N E

Though made of brass and having a conical pipe,
the saxophones are included in this chapter for
several important reasons: (1) their tone is closer
to the clarinet family than to any other; (2) they
are played with a mouthpiece and a single reed
very much like that of the clarinet; (3) most clar­
inetists double on saxophones because the fin­
gering and all other playing techniques are very
similar to those of the clarinet; and (4) the instru­
ment is used primarily as a member of the wood­
wind rather than the brass choir.
The saxophone was invented by Adolphe Sax
in Paris around 1840. Today there are a great vari­
ety of saxophones, used very extensively and in
multiple numbers in band and jazz band litera­
ture but in a limited way in standard orchestral
repertoire. The saxophone family has never been
fully accepted into the symphony orchestra, though a great many composers of
the nineteenth and twentieth centuries have used saxophones to great advantage,

C D -2

218

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

especially in solo passages. The sound of all saxes is quite distinctive, and tends
to overpower other instruments of the symphony orchestra, which may be one
reason they have not been used more extensively in this medium. A second rea­
son may be that the manner of playing the instrument and the sound it pro­
duced in its early days was considered too primitive. This situation has changed
considerably since the 1920s, and the great virtuosos of today, with their fantas­
tic control of every register in each instrument of the family, continue to con­
vince composers to incorporate the saxophone in their pieces.

Range and Registral Characteristics
Most players have difficulty playing very softly at both ends of the range, most
especially at the very bottom of it. The register after the first perfect 5th on each
instrument for almost two octaves up can be controlled beautifully, however.
exam ple

7 - 8 4 . Range and Transpositions of All Saxophones

All saxes
El. Sopranino
(minor 3rd up)
Bt Soprano
(major 2nd down)

1jo-

Sounding

Д

El>Alto
(major 6th down)
BtTenor
(major 9th down)
El>Baritone
(major 13th down)
Bl>Bass
(2 octaves +
a major 2nd down)

Sounding

Sounding

to-

ljcr

Sounding

к»

I)»

Composers have distinguished between two different sounds on the saxo­
phone: the jazz sound, which is either quite sweet, sentimental, and full of vi­
brato or very raucous, and the symphonic or classical sound, which tends to
contain less vibrato and be more dynamically controlled. Although many com-

In d i v i d u a l W o o d w i n d s

posers of the earlier twentieth century have used the saxophone to suggest jazz
or popular music, those living today have incorporated the growing variety of
playing techniques that have been developed by the great saxophone players.

The Saxophone in the Symphony Orchestra
Symphonic composers have made most use of the alto saxophone (in El), but so­
prano, tenor, and baritone are also in evidence in some pieces. In the symphonic
or concert band, the saxophone family is usually represented more fully, in one
of the following complements:
1. two altos
one tenor
one baritone
(one bass)

2. one soprano
one or two altos
one tenor
one baritone
(one bass)

The sopranino saxophone in F is very seldom if ever used, but we mention it
here because Ravel gave it prominence in his Bolero, and this instrument also
appears in chamber music.
e x a m p le 7 - 8 5 . Ravel, Bolero, 2-18 m m . after [7] (sopranino in F and soprano

in B!>)

C D -2/T R . 8 6

219

220

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

Here are two examples of the saxophone in orchestral music since 1840;
other examples from the band and wind ensemble repertoire may be found in
Chapters 17 and 19.
exam ple

c d -2/ t r . 8 7

7 - 8 6 . Bizet, L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2, second movement, mm. 17-20

(alto)
Moderate

exam ple

C D -2/T R . 8 8

7 - 8 7 . R. Strauss, Sinfonia domestica, mm. 950-951 and mm. 964-984

9.50
^

>
3 bJ У

ff

В

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Berg, Der Weiti; Violin Concerto; Lulu (alto saxophone)
J. A. Carpenter, Skyscrapers (alto, tenor, baritone saxophones)
Copland, Piano Concerto, mm. 254-256 (soprano saxophone)
Gershwin, An American in Paris, mm. 1-9 after |63|, with upbeat (alto saxophone)
J. Harbison, Remembering Gatsby (soprano saxophone)
Harris, Symphony No. 5 (tenor saxophone)
Khachaturian, Gayne ballet, "Saber Dance," one measure before [5] (alto
saxophone)
Musorgsky-Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition, "The Old Castle/' mm. 7-14 (alto
saxophone)
Penderecki, St. Luke Passion (two alto saxophones)
Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kije, second movement, mm. 1-A after [Щ] (tenor
saxophone)

I n d i v id u a l W o o d w i n d s

Rachmaninoff, Symplwnic Dances, first movement, mm. 105-120 (alto saxophone)
Vaughan Williams, Symphony No. 6, first movement, mm. 5-10 (tenor
saxophone)
Walton, Belshazzar's Feast (alto saxophone)
F. Waxman, Joshua, Rehab's aria (with alto saxophone)

Ba sso o n

CD-ROM

CD-2

B A SS O O N

Fagotto (It.); Basson (Fr.); Fagott (Ger.)
The bassoon, a double-reed instrument with a conical bore, is the bass voice of
the wind section. The reed is fitted onto a curved metal mouthpipe called the
crook or bocal. The pitch can be adjusted by pulling this mouthpipe out slightly,
thus lengthening it, or pushing it in a bit to shorten it. Although the bassoon, by
virtue of its double reed and conical shape, is related to the oboe, its tone is less
nasal. Like the oboe, the bassoon performs lyric melodies beautifully and pro­
duces attacks and staccato passages as incisively.

Range and Registral Characteristics
The bassoon is notated in the bass clef, but uses the tenor clef when the ledger
lines begin to accumulate (from about the G above middle С upward).
e x a m p l e 7 - 8 8 . Range

T h e B a s s o o n f a m il y

221

The

stu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

exam ple

7 - 8 9 . Registral Characteristics
S w eet, m ore subdued.

*

rw

— -J

Thin and o fte n pinched

Thin but intense

Sonorous, dark,
vibrant

*A few works, such as Nielsen's woodwind quintet, call for an A below the lowest в к Bassoonists pro­
duce this note by placing a small cardboard tube into the open end of the instrument.

As a solo instrument, the bassoon is superb in all its registers, but when ac­
companied it has a tendency to get swallowed up by the sound of other instru­
ments, especially in its higher registers. The low register is a very strong and
noble bass for the woodwind choir, and has also been a favorite register in
which to double the cellos and basses. In this latter combination the cello tone
predominates, but the doubling bassoon or bassoons give added body to the
sound.
A versatile and agile instrument, the bassoon has been a favorite solo instru­
ment of orchestral composers since the Baroque period. They have exploited its
dark, foreboding lower range as well as its pinched, extreme high notes, the lat­
ter used most famously by Stravinsky at the beginning of his Le Sacre du printemps (see Example 7-94); people at the first performance of this work mistook
the bassoon for a solo saxophone. Other composers have treated the bassoon as
the "clown of the orchestra" and have written staccato passages for it that truly
sound humorous.
Caution must be exercised when writing dynamics for the bassoon. It is ex­
tremely difficult to play the notes of the lowest perfect 5th pianissimo; rather,
they must be played with a firmer attack in order to speak clearly. The extreme
upper perfect 5th also does not project so well as most of the lower registers. If a
bassoon solo is accompanied in this register, the dynamics of the accompanying
instruments should be soft enough not to overshadow the soloist.

Articulation and Tonguing
Single tonguing is the norm for the bassoon and can be executed with remark­
able speed. Although double and triple tonguing are seldom called for, some
performers are able to perform these techniques. Upward slurs can be played
with great rapidity, and large skips are quite easily performed, even between
the extreme registers. However, because of the mechanics of the instrument,
some downward skips are very difficult.

Trills and Tremolos
Trills are most effective on the bassoon, although the following should be
avoided because the fingering is too awkward:

I n d iv id u a l w o o d w in d s
e x a m p l e 7 -9 0 . Trills to Avoid

w
•Some instruments have a special trill key for this trill.

For the same reason, avoid all trills from C5

up, except

, and
-but use the last only if the instrument has an extra
E key. Tremolos are not very idiomatic; if they are written for the bassoon they
should never exceed a perfect 4th.

Representative Passages from the Literature
Here are some examples of significant bassoon passages from the orchestral
literature:
e x am p l e

7 - 9 1 . Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Overture, mm. 1-7

C D -2/T R. 8 9

exam ple

7 -92 . Bizet, Carmen, Entr'acte before Act П, mm. 1-20

CD -2/TR. 9 0

Allegretto moderate (J = 96)

exam ple

1

7-93. Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6, first movement, mm. 1-12
Adagio

C D -2/T R. 9 1

223

224

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n
e x a m p l e 7 -94 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I, "L'Adoration de la
terre," mm. 1-15

C D -2/ T R . 9 2

Lento
adlib.

"4

13
— 4

■

■

«

-

'*

. . .

p o c o p it l

f

3

.1

„

■

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Beethoven, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 184-187
Haydn, Symphony No. 103 ("Drum Roll"), second movement, mm. 74-84
Haydn, Symphony No. 104 ("London"), second movement, mm. 17-25
Mahler, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 8-15
Mozart, Symphony No. 38, first movement, mm. 111-115
Prokofiev, Peter and the Wolf, at |T5l, mm. 1-6
Ravel, Bolero, mm. 41-48
Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, second movement, at (T), mm. 2-7
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 5, third movement, mm. 197-205

Multiple Bassoons
As with the flutes, oboes, and clarinets, the basic orchestral complement of bas­
soons is two. As the symphony orchestra expanded, bassoons in threes and
even fours were employed, with the last usually doubling on the contrabassoon.
The bassoons in multiples have been used in many ways, from unisons and par­
allel interval passages to complex contrapuntal phrases. Here are two passages
for two or three bassoons, without contrabassoon:
C D -2/T R . 9 3
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exam ple

72

7 -95 . Dukas, L'Apprenti sorcier, mm. 72-99
Vif
a 3 soli

79
i i p

in d iv id u a l W o o d w i n d s

exam ple

7 - 9 6 . Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, second movement, mm. 164-171

Allegretto scherzando

225

C D -2/T R . 9 3
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 0

Bsn. 1

Bsn. 2

Bsn. 3

Bsn. 2

В

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, fifth movement, mm. 255-277
Bizet, L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2, fourth movement, mm. 10-16
Debussy, Nocturnes, “Fetes," mm. 33-35
Mozart, Symphony No. 40, second movement, mm. 68-71
R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 1-3
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6, fourth movement, mm. 21-36
Wagner, Tristan und Isolde, Act Ш, "Mild und leise," mm. 9-12

C o n trabasso o n
Contrafagotto (It .); Contrebasson (Fr .); Kontrafagott (Ger.)
Although the oboe and bassoon have no auxiliaries that extend their ranges up­
ward, both have instruments that extend the range downward. The contrabas­
soon, the lowest of the woodwinds, widens the bassoon's range by an octave. It
sounds an octave lower than notated.

CD-RO M
C D -2
CO N TRA BA SSO O N

226

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

Range and Registral Characteristics
exam ple

7-97. Range

Written

Sounding an octave lower

The contrabassoon uses essentially the same techniques as the bassoon, only
the articulation on this larger instrument, especially in its lowest register, is a bit
more stubborn and resistant, and speaks more slowly. This factor has created an
impression of clumsiness, which has often been exploited by composers. In fact,
the lowest 12th is its more effective range.
When tones are sustained, the contrabassoon acts like a thirty-two-foot
organ pipe; the tones have a "buzz" because of the slow vibrations, but they
provide a solid foundation for a chord or passage, especially when doubling cel­
los, basses, and bassoons at the octave. Notes in this lower range take a consid­
erable amount of breath to produce; therefore, the composer or orchestrator
should provide periodic rests throughout the passage.
Even though many composers have asked contrabassoon players to play in
the instrument's higher (and even in its highest) register, this takes the instru­
ment out of its most characteristic range and makes it just another bassoon, a lit­
tle weaker and paler than its relatives.

Articulation and Tonguing
Both legato and staccato passages are effective on the contrabassoon; staccato,
however, is difficult to execute quickly since the air column on the instrument is
too large and responds too sluggishly, especially at the lower end of the register.
Therefore, it is best to avoid fast, repeated staccato notes.

Representative Passages from the Literature
There are few contrabassoon solo passages in the orchestral literature, fewer
concertos aside from that by Gunther Schuller. Rather, composers tend to blend
this instrument in with others, as the second of the following four passages
demonstrates:
CD -2/TR. 9 4

exam ple

7 - э а . R. Strauss, Salome, Scene 3,6-27 m m . after |151|

in d i v i d u a l

exam ple

i

7 -99. Brahms, Variations on a Theme by Haydn, mm. 1-10
Andante

ten. ten.

Cbsn.

Wo o d w in d s

227

аа

228

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

c d - 2 / t r . 96

e x a m p l e 7 - i oo. Ravel, Ma mere Voye, "Les entretiens de la belle et la bfite," mm.

----------1----------- 114-123
Andante
Cbsn.

PP

C D -2/ T R . 9 7

exam ple

3

7 - i o i . Ravel, La Valse, |37|-[38l

BE a d d i t i o n a l p a s s a g e s

for stu d y

Beethoven, Fidelio, Act П, Duet between Leonore and Rocco, starting in m. 28 (in
unison with muted cellos and basses)
Beethoven, Symphony No. 9, fourth movement, Alla marda, mm. 1-28 (see pp.
497-500 in this volume)
Bloch, Schelomo, last 5 mm.
Brahms, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 47-51
H. Gorecki, Beatus vir (two contrabassoons)
Mahler, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 35-28 before the end
G. Schuller, Concerto for Contrabassoon and Orchestra
R. Strauss, Elektra, at 186 , mm. 1-18
R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 551-558

S c o r in g fo r Wo o d w in d s
A N D W O O D W I N D -S T R IN G
CO M BINATIO NS
Though the chamber music repertoire for winds is quite extensive, very few
larger works for winds that rival those for string orchestra have been composed
over the past three centuries. Exceptions are the divertimenti and serenades of
Mozart, the serenades of Dvorak and Richard Strauss, and the symphonies of
Gounod and Milhaud, all of which are appearing more and more frequently on
symphonic programs. In most of these works two or more homs are included as
part of the woodwind section. We will discuss why this is so later in this chapter.

T h e R o l e o f W i n d s in t h e
S ym ph o n y O r c h est r a
The string choir is fairly homogeneous in sound and plays almost continuously
throughout most orchestral compositions. In contrast, the woodwind choir's
sound is heterogeneous, as we will see, and is usually reserved for specific func­
tions. The woodwinds' most common functions have been:
1. to play solo passages—either entire melodies, melodic fragments, or smaller
melodic gestures;
2. to provide a harmonic background for a string foreground;
3. to provide a contrasting color, repeating or echoing a passage previously
played by the strings or playing part of a passage that is divided between
strings and winds; and
4. to double other instruments of the orchestra.
As we examine the use of winds in the symphony orchestra it will become
obvious just how different each instrument sounds from the others in the sec­
tion. We will see that sometimes it is not easy to determine quickly why a com­
poser chose the instrumental color or color combination of a particular group of
woodwinds to state a particular theme. For instance:
1. Why did Schubert use unison oboe and clarinet for the first theme in his
"Unfinished Symphony"?
2. Why did Debussy assign a unison flute and oboe to play the long theme in
the final movement of La Mer?
3. Why did Berlioz choose the English horn to express despair in his Symphonie
fantastique?
4. Why did Stravinsky open Le Sacre du printemps with a high bassoon?
229

PRA CTIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

8

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

Clearly questions of taste, color preference, and perhaps even prejudice
come to the fore. As we experiment with the examples from symphonic litera­
ture in this chapter we will see why certain instruments or instrumental combi­
nations were chosen—in others words, how they work better in specific
situations than would other wind instruments or instrumental combinations.
Rimsky-Korsakov once said, 'T o orchestrate is to create, and this cannot be
taught." We hope to refute his statement by methodically presenting widely
used orchestration techniques for the woodwind section so that the student or­
chestrator will gain a solid grasp of certain principles. We encourage you to be­
come thoroughly familiar with these principles, for they can be successfully
relied on in a variety of orchestral situations.
We will begin by examining an extended excerpt from Schubert's
Symphony No. 8 in В minor ("Unfinished"), and extract from it some basic
principles of how the woodwind section can be assigned the melody or the har­
mony. After that, we will examine the woodwind roles of providing the
melody and the harmony in more detail before focusing on how winds can
provide contrasting color as well as double other orchestral instruments.
Finally, we will examine some novel articulations and new techniques for
woodwinds before closing with a short treatment of transcribing piano music
for winds.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

230

Using the Woodwind Section to Provide
the Melody and Harmony
As Provider of Melody
After the opening twelve measures of his Symphony No. 8 in В minor,
Schubert uses instruments of the woodwind section—the first oboe and first
clarinet in unison—to introduce the first major theme. The theme carries well in
both instruments, which can easily play pianissimo in this register.
C D -3/ T R . 1 8

e x a m p l e e - 1 . Schubert, Symphony No. 8 , first movement, mm. 1 2 - 3 6

PR A C TIC E
IN

231

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g c o m b i n a t i o n s

u
и
к 232
о
<
(V
К
Z

ва

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

The bassoon, which cannot play this melody in the same range as the flute,
oboe, or clarinet, could instead be doubled with any one of these instruments at
the octave. Any of these combinations would be quite sonorous. Example 8-4
gives a version for oboe and bassoon, and Example 8-5 for flute, clarinet, and
bassoon in a three-octave spread, which was one of Mozart's favorite color
combinations.*

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

234

C D -3/T R . 1 9
IN D EX 3 / 0 : 3 6

C D -3/T R . 1 9
IN D EX 4 / 0 : 5 4

e-4. Schubert, Symphony No. 8, first movement, first theme scored
for oboe and bassoon
exam ple

e x a m p l e 8 -5 . Schubert, Symphony No. 8, first movement, first theme scored
for flute, clarinet, and bassoon

But we would jump the gun if we used the octave doubling in Examples 8-4 and
8-5, thereby diminishing the effect of Schubert's expansion of registers in mea­
sures 20-21 as well as the climactic cadence in measures 28-29; these renditions,
therefore, would not be acceptable for the opening statement of the theme. In
Schubert's actual score the flute enters almost undetected in measure 26, when it
doubles the oboe for the crescendo, but it is not really heard until it plays the
highest notes of the cadential chords in measures 28-29.

As Provider of Accompaniment
Now let us examine how Schubert uses the woodwinds in a different role, as
accompaniment, in the introduction to the second theme of this movement. In

*Mozarl used this combination in such famous works as his Piano Concerto in С Major, K.
503, first movement, measures 76-82, and third movement, measures 83-91, as well as in his
opera Le Nozze di Figaro, in the duet from Act I, scene 1, measures 67-73. Similar combinations
can also be heard in Le Nozze di Figaro, in the aria "Venite inginocchiatevi" from Act II, scene 3
(clarinet and bassoon); the aria "Dove sono" from Act HI, scene 8 (oboe and bassoon); and the
chorus "Ricevete, о padroncina" from Act Ш, scene 11 (flute and bassoon).

a -6 . Schubert, Symphony No. 8, first movement, mm. 36-80

CD-3/TR. 20

Allegro moderato

Alt.,

2 ACL

if<nf f

ORCHESTRATION

exam ple

IN

Example 8-6, notice how the clarinets combine first with the violas and then
with the bassoons to create an off-the-beat accompaniment pattern.

235

PR A CTICE

SCO RIN G FOR WOODWINDS AND WOODWIND-STRING COM BINATIONS

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

236

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRACTICE

cresc.

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

238

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

We can see that by orchestrating each major thematic element differently,
Schubert communicates the distinctive quality of each thematic idea more effec­
tively, thereby clarifying the movement's form.

T H E VARIETY O F O R C H ESTR A L
T reatm en ts
We will now analyze how woodwinds can serve each of the functions listed on
p. 229.

Melodic Treatment
Unison Doubling
In the previous chapter we discussed assigning the melody to each wood­
wind instrument in turn. Let us suppose that we have now chosen an appropri­
ate instrument for a certain passage but question whether it will be strong
enough to carry the tune alone. In what instances would we double it with the
same instrument? In other words, when do two flutes sound louder than one?
Or if two clarinets rather than one play the same gesture, will the sound be
more intense?
Experts disagree on exact answers to these rather controversial questions.
But we can fruitfully discuss the difference in sound between one oboe (or other
wind instrument) on a part and two oboes on the same part by referring to our
description of muted strings and brass (pp. 39 and 307): the string mute, for ex­
ample, softens the instrument but also changes the instrument's basic color.
Similarly, since two of the same wind instruments can never be absolutely in
tune with one another, having them play solo passages will upset the overtone
balance and thereby thicken the sound—or, in certain registers, even muddy it.
Thus, the essential timbre of the solo instrument is altered. Using two like winds
for a unison solo also often impedes the expressive quality that one instrument
can give to the phrase, whether by adding rubato or using another technique.
(We are speaking now of ordinary solo passages in orchestral works, not tutti
sections in which sheer volume is required and the display of a characteristic in­
strumental timbre is immaterial.)
To illustrate this type of difference in sound, let us consider the following
tune by Rossini from his Semiramide overture, first as a solo on each of the four
basic wind instruments and then a 2.

exam ple

C D -3/ T R . 2 1

PRA CTICE

8 -7. Rossini, Semiramide, Overture, mm. 178-181, scored for solo and

ORCHESTRATION

doubled winds

239

IN

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Octave Doubling
In Chapter 7 we discussed the benefits of doubling wind passages in oc­
taves, the effect of which is analogous to the organist's use of pipe organ regis­
tration to add color and volume to a tone. The organist usually couples the
fundamental (eight-foot stop) with an octave (four-foot) and a double octave
(two-foot), giving off a transparent but forceful sound. Simply adding more fun­
damentals (eight-foot stops) would only muddy the sound. Similarly, for winds
a 2 doubling at the octave in many instances is more effective than doubling at
the unison.
e x a m p l e e - 8 . Rossini, Semiramide, Overture, mm. 178-181, scored for solo wind
instruments with octave doubling

C D -3/ T R . Z 2

T he S tudy

ORCHESTRATION

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Here is how Rossini actually scored the passage, handling the eight-foot-four-foot
principle beautifully.

IN

PR A C TIC E

240

e x a m p le e -9 .

C D -3/T R . 2 3

1?7

A lle g r o

Rossini, Semiramide, Overture, n u n . 177-192

PRACTICE

241

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r i n g f o r w o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Choosing a Color to Characterize or Clarify
a Melodic Gesture or Passage
Frequently, particularly in tone poems, a particular instrumental color (or
the color of a small group of instruments) is used melodically to represent a per­
son or an object. Or more abstractly, it may represent an idee fixe or leitmotif.

th e

stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Hundreds of examples can be cited from the literature, from Berlioz's use of the
clarinet in his Symphonie fantastique and Weber's use of two clarinets in his over­
ture to Der Freischiitz to Strauss's use of the hom in Till Eulenspiegel and the in­
credible bassoon opening of Stravinsky's Le Sacre du printemps. We have already
mentioned that in the nineteenth century the clarinet was regarded as the
nightingale of the orchestra.
Assigning a motive or melody to a particular instrument or group of
instruments is an effective way to clarify the form of a piece. For instance, in
"Nuages," the first movement of Debussy's Nocturnes, a series of parallel
chords, introduced by the clarinets and bassoons, opens the work; the only con­
trasting gesture is played by the English hom, shown in Example 8-10.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

242

CD-3/TR. 2 4

exam ple

e -ю . Debussy, Nocturnes, "Nuages," mm. 21-28
Modere

Eng. Hn.

26

-- -

.1
--- 1-v-Ц -

Ц —-----------

We see that the English horn's motive serves to define the beginning and ending
sections of the piece; it neatly reintroduces the return of the opening parallel
chords at the change back to the original key twenty-three measures before the
end. It is not used at all in the movement's middle section. We can thus consider
the English hom gesture as clarifying a rough A-B-A form.
In the second Nocturne, "Fetes," Debussy reserves certain colors, made up of
specific groups of instruments, each time they appear, such as that which carries
the staccato figure in measures 27-29 (Example 8-11).
CD-3ATR. 2 5

e x a m p l e

8-ii.

Debussy, Nocturnes, "Fetes," mm. 27-29

This same combination is used again four measures later and then is repeatedly
heard in the recapitulation of the first part starting at measure 208 and follow­
ing. Although this movement is full of a variety of extremely colorful instru-

ORCHESTRATION

IN

mental combinations, Debussy chose to have the same instruments iterate each
repetition of this melodic fragment.

Harmonic Treatment
Pedal Accompaniment
We will now examine the ways in which composers have used the wood­
wind section to provide harmony or accompaniment. In many forte tutti pas­
sages within the Classical and Romantic repertoire, the winds (with horns)
serve to strengthen the harmony by providing one or more pedals to give a
strong, continuous, and solid underpinning to the music. Here is the opening
statement of the theme from Mozart's Symphony No. 29, K. 201, which is scored
for the typical early Classical orchestra.
e x a m p le 8- 12 . Mozart, Symphony No. 29, K. 201, first movement, mm. 1 -5

AHn.

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

The first tutti of the movement, given in Example 8-13, shows the traditional use
of the pedal A in both the oboes and horns. Often the horns are assigned
the same dominant and tonic pedal notes as those given to the oboes in
early Classical symphonies; other times they double other wind parts to
strengthen them * For this reason the horns were placed in the score just
below the woodwinds (above the trumpets), where they have remained until
today.

*From the Classical orchestra onward, horns were considered part woodwind, part brass,
and their function was divided. The horn has also been a member of both the woodwind quin­
tet and the brass quintet.

243

PRACTICE

S c o r i n g f o r Wo o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

C D -3/ T R . 2 6

PRA CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

244

For comparison, let us consider this passage without the tonic pedal. Notice
the lack of stability and grandeur without those sustained tones in the first six
measures of this example. Notice, too, how much the pedal strengthens the ca­
dence in Example 8-13—especially at the second horn's skip of an octave, which
dramatically emphasizes the dissonance.

C D -3/ T R . 2 7
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 3

PRA CTICE
ORCHESTRATION

e x a m p l e e- 1 4. Mozart, Symphony No. 29, K. 201, first movement, mm. 13-23
without pedal tone

245

IN

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d W o o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Sustained Accompaniment
Large-scale sustained harmonies played by the woodwinds are a common
device of Classical- and Romantic-periods orchestrations. For instance, in the
overture to Mozart's Le Nozze di Figaro, the underlying harmonies are sustained
by the slow counterpoint played by the flute and oboe, which overUes an active
string theme. Notice that the bassoon does not take part in this counterpoint
but instead doubles the cello melody. As the only nonstring that plays the
theme, the bassoon adds a wonderful new color that is audible even when the
bassoon plays very softly. Most likely Mozart had pragmatic reasons for giving
the melody also to the bassoon: at that time the cello and bass sections in the­
ater orchestras were very small, and bassoons were frequently used to bolster
the bass lines. Today the beautiful coloristic effect remains. Notice the wide
distance between the strings and the flute and oboe, which adds prominence to
the sustained counterpoint without deflecting attention from the major the­
matic idea.

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

246

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

cd-3/tr. 28

e x а м p l e 8 - 1 5 . Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Overture, mm. 19-42

PRACTICE
IN

247

ORCHESTRATION

SCO RIN G FOR WOODWINDS AND WOODWIND-STRING COM BIN ATION S

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Sustained harmonies played by the woodwind section are used effectively
throughout the overture. For instance, the sustained chords built by the flutes,
oboes, and clarinets in measures 35 and following reinforce the tutti cadence of
measures 43-45 (Examples 8-15 and 8-16). And immediately thereafter, these cadential harmonies are prolonged by the agitated repetition of the dominant note
A5, played by the violins, a rather common device employed by string sections
during this period, as well as by the chordal punctuations of the winds, brass,
violas, cellos, and double basses (Example 8-16).

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

248

cd-

3/ t r . 29

e x a m p le

8- 16 . Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Overture, mm. 43-58

In Example 8-17, from the overture to Die Fledermaus by Johann Strauss, Jr.,
the sustained harmonies, rather than detracting from the light character of this
passage, help focus the listener's attention on the sprightly nature of the time
and its accompaniment, as well as tie the passage together harmonically. But

T H E STU D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Strauss interrupts this pedal in measure 83, thereby separating the first state­
ment of the melody from the second, so that the anacrusis to the second state­
ment in the first violins is clearly heard. This interruption also provides a
natural breathing space for the wind players, and its omission later on con­
tributes to the increasing tension after measure 99.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

250

c d - 3/ t r . 3 0

e - 1 7 . J. Strauss, Die Fledermaus, Overture, mm. 76-101 (anacrusis to
first statement of theme in m. 76 omitted)

e x a m p l e

PRA CTICE

251

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

91

PRA C TICE

The S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

252

Studying the Mozart and Strauss overtures for the different ways in which
harmonic gestures can be sustained leads to a deeper appreciation of orchestral
scoring typical of the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. We urge you to
explore these scores further to find other instances where sustained harmonies,
including pedals, are carried by the woodwind section. When called on to
orchestrate or transcribe a work in this style, you should employ this type of
scoring whenever possible.
We will now focus on writing homophonically and contrapuntally for wood­
winds. Depending on the context, the winds will carry either the melody or cre­
ate the harmony in these passages.

Ho m o p h o n ic Writing

for

Winds

The wind choir with or without horns was not widely used in homophonic pas­
sages until the nineteenth century. But from that time on we find many exam­
ples of purely homophonic writing, as brief as four measures to as long as entire
passages.
As a preliminary exercise, we suggest that you reduce to piano texture
Examples 8-11, 8-29, and 8-40. Analyze the doubling and spacing of each
melodic line and chord and the voice leading of the harmonic progressions, and
notice how the composer has made most effective use of the registers of each
wind instrument. In the reduction, the melody should come through clearly
(that is, if it is important) and not be obscured by the harmony. If the chord pro­
gression itself is the primary interest, then it must be reduced from the orches­
tral texture in a way that mimics the registral distinctions of the wind

ORCHESTRATION

IN

instruments that the composer originally used to effect a light or dark shading, a
loud or soft dynamic, a chord in root position or inverted.
Before we look at a few examples from the literature, let us examine some of
the more effective uses of doubling and spacing in a chordal texture. Even
though homophonic wind writing in general, and doubling, spacing, and in­
strument selection in particular have been used by various composers in ways
characteristic of their personal style, we can still extract from their pieces some
norms to keep in mind.

Chords for Winds in Pairs
Chords for winds in pairs may be voiced in four ways:
е -is .

e x a m p l e

Four Voidngs for Chords for Winds in Pairs
2. Interlocked

1. Juxtaposed or
superimposedI
t>FI.

3. Enclosed

F I . < T - d ._________ „

C D -4/T R. 1

4. Overlapped

F l . <i ~

1. Juxtaposing or superimposing one woodwind pair over the other is proba­
bly the most frequently used voidng, but you must be sure that the most
prominent melody note is in a good register for the instrument to which it
has been assigned.
2. Interlocking the instrumental parts is a more imaginative voicing because it
mixes the wind colors, but it must be used carefully because the pitches in
some registers on some instruments will predominate over those on other
instruments that lack a similar carrying power.
e x a m p l e

8-i 9. Chords with Interlocking Woodwind Pairs

good

good

weaker

weak

bad, especially if
the dynamic is p p

C D -4/TR. 2

better for
p or p p

3. Endosing one instrumental group within another may present similar prob­
lems to those that result from interlocking instrumental groups: namely, up­
setting the timbral balance.
e x a m p le s -

20 . Chords with Endosed Woodwind Pairs

not bad

FI . </- 8>ob— ,—

good

better balance

g

The third combination in Example 8-20 encloses the oboe within two differ­
ent instrumental timbres. This not only gives better balance, since the clar­
inet is stronger on D5than the second flute, but also adds color.

253

PRACTICE

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

CD -4/TR. 3

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

4. Overlapping instrumental parts (doubling instruments at the unison) was in
much greater use before the twentieth century than it is today; as we have
seen, this technique obscures the timbral characteristics of both sets of in­
struments and often results in strengthening a pitch that does not necessar­
ily need that kind of emphasis. In orchestral tutti sections this practice, of
course, is still common.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA C TICE

254

Chords for Multiples of Winds
When multiples of three and four instruments are used, the same principles of
juxtaposing, interlocking, enclosing, and overlapping should be followed.
Assign pitches that are registrally and technically practical for each instrument
so that the balance of the chord or the flow of the melody is not upset.

Chords in Which Each Note Has a Different Timbre
In most cases it is best to avoid using chords in which each note has a different
timbre. Such chords are difficult to balance, and often are played out of tune.
However, they work better when scored for single winds in a small orchestra,
particularly if the chord is widely spaced, allowing each instrument to be placed
in its most advantageous register. In Example 8-21, notice that the preferred
spacing has the largest intervals between the bass and the next highest voice. It
is customary to voice the higher woodwinds (the upper notes of the chord) in
close position.
CD-4/TR. 4

e x a m p l e e - 2 1 . Chords with a Single Woodwind on Each Pitch
difficult, and not
very good

good

good

** — FI.

Spacing
Composers often treat the spacing of chord tones in a very personal way.
Examples typical of Beethoven and other nineteenth-century composers, as well
as Stravinsky, bear this out:
C D -4/T R . S

e x a m p le

e -22.

Typical Spacing in a Beethoven Work

e x a m p l e

b -2 4 .

C D -4 /TR . 6

ПСЕ
IN

8 - 2 3 . Spacing Found in Many Nineteenth-Century Works

ORCHESTRATION

e x a m p l e

255

PRAC

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w in d s a n d W o o d w in d -S t r in g C o m b in a t io n s

Two Stravinsky Spadngs

C D -4/ T R . 7

Bright or dark hues result from a combination of instrumental choice and chord
position:
e x a m p l e

8 -2 5 .

Bright and Dark Colors

b righ t

C D -4/T R . 8

dark

The student orchestrator must give special consideration to spacing within
first-inversion chords, particularly when the third (in the bass) is doubled by a
lower (rather than an upper) chord member. This spacing will preserve the
open sound of the first-inversion chord.
e x a m p le e -

26. Spacing of First-Inversion Chords

b ad

_

л

good

^ > F I.

ft ---- “ rj~ ob----------t j' ~ il ' ■
* Cl.

FI

"

°A

« // > a
Bin

Representative Homophonic Passages
Now let us study three homophonic examples from orchestral literature.

C D -4/T R . 9

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

Berlioz, The Damnation of Faust, "Will-o'-the-Wisps"
C D -4/T R . 1 0

e x a m p l e e - 2 7 . Berlioz, The Damnation of Faust, "Minuet of the Will-o'-theWisps," mm. 125-140

PRA CTIC E
IN

257

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r w o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d -s t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

The fast passage from the "Will-o'-the-Wisp" movement, given above, fea­
tures two piccolos and flute, doubled by the oboes, playing continuously
against a marchlike rhythmic-harmonic background played by the two clar­
inets, bass clarinet, and strings.

ORCHESTRATION

IN P R A C T I C E

258

Schumann, Symphony No. 2, Fourth Movement
More characteristic of homophonic writing for winds are these eight mea­
sures from Schumann's second symphony. The doubling of the oboe line at the
octave by the solo viola and the bassoon line by the solo cello make a smooth
transition to the introduction of the entire string section in measure 288. The
color of the oboe and bassoon doubling will be retained for several measures
after the G octave is reached in measure 291.
e x a m p l e b- 2 8

CD -4/TR. 1 1

FI

Ob.

И CL

Bsn.

Schumann, Symphony No. 2, fourth movement, mm. 272-291

PRA CTICE

259

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

W. Schuman, New England Triptych, Third Movement
("Chester")
The opening of this movement is an excellent example of a simple hymn
setting in which the winds simulate an organ. Study Schuman's effective
treatment of the doublings and voicing. The flute neutralizes some of the
oboe's nasal quality, making the sound even more organlike. The mass of
wind color that began the movement thins out at measure 13, when the bass
clarinet enters, which provides a welcome change. If Schuman had intro­
duced a cello or bass here, it would have detracted from the novelty of
hearing a string sound in the new section starting at measure 18 (not
recorded).

PRA C TICE

exam ple

e - 2 9 . W. Schuman, New England Triptych, t h i r d movement

("Chester"), mm. 1-17

ORCHESTRATION

IN

Religioso ( j = c. 84)

13

ORCHESTRATION

IN

C O N T R A P U N T A L W R ITIN G F O R W IN D S
Since the wind section was not predominant in orchestral pieces of the Baroque
and Classical periods, not many examples of fugal or imitative composition
written specifically for winds can be found in this repertoire. Of course, there
are hundreds of examples of individual winds playing imitatively with strings
or other wind instruments. In later periods, however, contrapuntal passages
written specifically for winds are a feature of many large orchestral works.
Since each of the woodwinds has such a unique color, contrapuntal writing,
particularly when coupled with strong rhythms, can be very effective. Here
are three different examples of contrapuntal wind writing from the orchestral
literature.

Mozart, Symphony No. 38, K. 504, Third Movement
The marvelous woodwind imitation heard in this passage provides harmonic
stability for the first violins' melody and adds to its sunny nature.
exam ple

s - 3 0 . Mozart, Symphony No. 38, K. 504, third movement, mm.

120-138
Presto

261

PR A C TIC E

S c o r in g f o r W o o d w in d s a n d W o o d w in d -S t r in g C o m b in a t io n s

CD-4ATR. 13

PRA C TICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

262

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

S c o r in g

fo r

W o o d w i n d s a n d W o o d w i n d -s t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Britten, The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, Fugue
Here is one of the few full-fledged fugal expositions written exclusively for
woodwinds. Notice how it makes full use of the registral characteristics of each
member of the choir. Listen carefully to the many examples of two like instru­
ments playing in unison.
exam ple

8-3 1 . Britten, The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, Fugue, mm.

1-55
Allegro molto
Picc.

C D -4/T R . 1 4

263

U f)

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A CTICE

PR A C TIC E

265

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r i n g f o r Wo o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Stravinsky, Le Sucre du printemps, " I /Adoration de la terre"
Probably one of the most ingenious passages in all orchestral literature, this is
counterpoint at its most sophisticated.
e x a m p l e e - 3 2 . Stravinsky, Le Sacredu printemps, Part I, "UAdoration d e la
terre," mm. 40-60

л Lento

40

C D -4/T R . 1 5

266

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

poco piii f

3

PRA CTICE
IN

267

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r Wo o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

268

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

Practically every wind instrument has an entirely separate part at all times. It is
as though we were listening to the sounds of nature on a spring night; the beau­
tiful divided bass harmonics that begin in measure 57 add a mysterious texture
to the whole. Nothing seems to have exact rhythm, yet every line is precisely
notated in t and 3. The extreme rhythmic variation that is heard, however, im­
parts a magnificent freedom.
In spite of the many diverse parts, the music is crystal clear because
Stravinsky has orchestrated each gesture in the best register of the instrument
that plays it. For instance, the double tonguing of the piccolo at the beginning of

The S tudy o f

o r c h e s t r a t io n

the excerpt sounds just right, as does the general mixing of three-against-two
and four-against-six rhythms. Notice how the grace notes are divided, a typical
Stravinsky device: in measure 40 the first clarinet plays the grace notes on the
first note, the second clarinet on the third, the first again on the fifth note, and so
forth. This technique makes the grace notes sound fresher since no one player is
worn out by constantly repeating the same figure. Also, each player will neces­
sarily articulate a bit differently, individualizing each grace note. Stravinsky
uses this division of wind roles on many similar occasions, notably in Petrushka.
Study the excerpt very carefully, for it contains some of the most thoughtful and
colorful wind writing ever composed.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

270

U s in g t h e Wind C h o ir
C o n tra stin g C o lo r

to

P ro vid e

a

One obvious use of the wind section is to provide contrasting color to the string
section. This can be done in a number of ways. For instance, one section of the
orchestra can alternate with another section, as in Example 8-33. In this example,
each section actually melds into the other, the woodwind chord dissolving into
the string chord (measure 236); at the very end, Brahms introduces the final
chord in the string section and then colors it with the winds, whose slightly dif­
ferent voicing sustains the upper octave previously introduced in measure 235
by that section.
CD^4/TR. 1 6

exa m ple

Allegretto

8-33.

Brahms, Symphony No. 2, third movement, mm. 233-240

Wo o d w in d s a n d Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b in a t io n s

8-34. Schumann, Symphony No. 1, third movement, mm. 48-79

n

Ob.

BVCL

Bsn.

DHn.

DTpt.

Timp.

Vln. 1

Vln.2

Via.

Vic.

D.B.

IN

Another example of an effective alternation of voices is found at the begin­
ning of the first Trio in Schumann's Symphony No. 1. Here, a short gesture is
initiated by the strings and then played by the winds and homs (two measures
later the trumpets are added to this group). This gesture serves as a unifying el­
ement in the movement; when it is later played together by both choirs (mea­
sures 60 ff.), a sense of completeness or resolution results.

271

PR A CTICE

fo r

CD-4/TR. 1 7

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

PR A CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

272

cresc.

ПСЕ
PRAC

273

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g c o m b i n a t i o n s

cresc.

Following is a famous and clear example of antiphonal writing from the
first movement of Beethoven's Symphony No. 3. Beethoven was very fond of
assigning a motivic gesture to different members of the wind and string sec­
tions and then summing up the passage with a cadential tutti phrase. In
Example 8-35, which starts with a fortissimo tutti after the opening exposition of
the main idea, Beethoven provides instant contrast in measure 45 by "throwing
around" a three-note motive; first played by the oboe, it is then repeated at dif­
ferent pitch levels by the clarinet, flute, and first violin. This entire exchange

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

begins anew in measure 49 and again in measure 53, but this third time the
game is altered when the clarinet and bassoon follow in octaves, thereby intro­
ducing a summation gesture played by all winds and strings in octaves and
unisons (the horns and trumpets provide the dominant-tonic root movement).
As a general rule, (although there are exceptions), many of the great composers
alter a musical idea, instrumentation, and so on, the third time they use it, even
if very slightly; this altered repetition usually functions as a link to a new idea
or section.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA C TICE

274

co4/TR. 18

exa m ple

8-35.

Beethoven, Symphony No. 3, first movement, mm. 37-57

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRACTICE

T h e S tu d y

o f

o r c h e s tr a tio n

U s i n g t h e Wind C h o ir t o
D o u b l e O t h e r In s t r u m e n t s
of the Orchestra

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

276

The woodwind choir is often called on to double the string choir, especially in
tutti sections. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centimes, unison doublings of
strings by winds were very popular. Today, octave doublings are used more
frequently because, as we discovered earlier in this chapter, doublings at the
unison detract from the clarity of a line by thickening the sound and muddying
the upper partials of both instruments.
Even though the doubling within a passage may look as though it might be
ineffective or unnecessary, the resulting timbre would be quite different with­
out the doubling. Let us imagine what the following passage, from Berlioz's
Symphonie fantastique, would sound like without the unison doubling, a solo
flute with a solo violin. This rendition would have neither the warmth nor the
richness of Berlioz's version, given in Example 8-36, especially in the upper
reaches of the melodic line.
c d -4/ T R .

19

exa m ple

e-36.

Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, third movement, mm. 20-37

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

An unusually beautiful doubling occurs at the beginning of the second
movement of Brahms's Symphony No. 1. We have already experienced the ef­
fect of two bassoons doubling the bass line in the opening theme of Mozart's
overture to Le Nozze di Figaro. Here we have a single bassoon doubling the open­
ing theme of the first violins in octaves (Example 8-37). This doubling brings out
the melody and gives it added warmth in an already rich harmonic setting.
exa m ple

e-37.

Brahms, Symphony No. 1, second movement, mm. 1-6

Andante sostenuto

Examples of the entire wind section doubling the strings abound in
nineteenth- and twentieth-century literature. In our first example, the first
violins are doubled by the flutes and piccolo an octave higher; the violas by
the oboes and clarinets an octave higher, filling out the upper-octave har­
mony; and the cellos by the bassoons at pitch as well as an octave higher.

C D -4/TR. 2 0

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

278

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

c d - 4 / t r . 21

E X A M P L E

8 -3 8 .

Dvorak, Carnival Overture, mm. 25-31

e - 3 9 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6 , first movement, mm. 237-244

CD -d/TR. 2 2

ORCHESTRATION

ex a m ple

IN

Our second example starts with a dark coloring, and only as it ascends in
pitch does it become more and more brilliant Of course, the trick is to keep the
volume of the brass down enough to let the strings and winds come through.
This passage would sound more exuberant if the piccolo were used at the begin­
ning and an octave higher, but that was obviously not the composer's intention,
because it would mask the subdued feeling that is portrayed there.

279

PR A C TIC E

S c o r i n g f o r Wo o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

PRA CTICE
IN

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

280

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

S c o r i n g f o r W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Our third example shows quiet doubling at its best and gives a complete
summation of the two previous phrases, which were for strings alone and then
winds alone. In Example 8-40 they come together for a third statement, preced-

281

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ing the final coda. Notice the voicing, with the violas above the second violins in
the first four measures. Since the second violins are so low, they need the
doubling by the second clarinet and .the muted horn. Notice also the way
Copland orchestrates a diminuendo by cutting out the first oboe in the fifth
measure (in this extremely low register it would sound too prominent) and sub­
stituting the quiet, rich sound of the second flute to finish the doubling of the vi­
olin. It is interesting that the horn, which doubles the second violin for four
measures, then switches to playing in 3rds, thereby emphasizing concert pitch
E, the third of the С-major chord just before |7l|. This chord, without its domi­
nant note (G), is a relative of the famous final chord of the Symphony of Psalms,
but here it is very quiet, dark, and subdued, compared with its bright spacing in
the Stravinsky work.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTIC E

282

e x a m p l e 8 - 4 0 . Copland, Appalachian Spring,

C D -4/T R. 2 3

Moving forward

a tempo

1. con sord.
FHn.1,2

sonore

щГ sonore

sonore

S c o r i n g f o r Wo o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

Ne w T y p e s o f A r t ic u l a t io n s
f o r Wo o d w i n d s
Two basic types of articulation are possible for woodwind instruments, slurred
or tongued; tonguing may be single, double, or even triple. Tonguing can also
be hard or soft, which produces different kinds of articulations where appropri­
ate. Some modern composers have devised a number of novel articulation for­
mulas, two of which we will examine here.

"Pulsating" Unisons
A long solo passage for flute and oboe, from the final movement of Debussy's
La Mer, shows these two instruments in unison, but a unison that "pulsates": the
oboe takes the sustained notes of the flute and divides them in half or in thirds,
a process that makes the tune seem more animated than it would be if the oboe
doubled the flute using the same rhythmic values.
example

8-4 1 . Debussy, La Mer, third movement, mm. 157-170
Plus calm e et tree e xp re ss!!

I5?.

R etard ez un poi

1. Solo

.

3

PP

sur la touche

(lers de chaque pupitre Soli)

sur la touche

molto

283

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

284

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

f o r w o o d w in d s a n d

Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

285

ORCHESTRA

S c o r in g

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N
Retenu

O RC H ESTRA TIO N

IN P R A C T I C E

286

еУ е

Hp. 1

yr ffj ftU fry

Hp. 2

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.
D.B.

This technique draws attention to the difference between the tone qualities of
the flute and oboe. As the two reach their lower register, the pulsating oboe line
gains prominence over the more placid flute line.

Combining Articulations in the Same Melodic Line
In the short excerpt from the first movement of Stravinsky's Symphony of Psalms,
the winds are divided so that one of them slurs a gesture while another one
tongues the same gesture; compare, for instance, the second and fourth oboe
lines, and the first, second, and third bassoon lines. The only lines that are en­
tirely slurred are the sung melody, doubled by the first and third oboes, and the
arpeggio figure in the English horn. The overall effect of this marvelous accom­
paniment is similar to that of violins being divided, the first violins playing arco
and the second playing the same gesture pizzicato.

Wo o d w in d s

and

Wo o d w in d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

e x a m p l e e -4 2 . Stravinsky, Symphony of Psalms, first movement, mm. 26-36

C D -4/ T R . 2 5

287

PRA CTICE

fo r

tN

S c o r in g

ORCHESTRATION

j = 92

th e st u d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

S pec ia l E f f e c t s

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTIC E

288

Composers are constantly experimenting with new sounds and fresh ap­
proaches to all instruments, woodwinds in particular. Although hundreds of
new uses have not found their way into the majority of newly composed orches­
tral pieces, you should still feel free to try any of them out. It is best, however, to
consult with an experienced, professional orchestral musician about whether a
desired effect will come off well in performance. In addition, clear instructions
on how to create the effect should be given at the beginning of the work. Most
problems that arise in contemporary scores stem from notation that is foreign to
the performer and is not sufficiently clarified.
Very fine examples of new techniques for woodwinds abound. In the inge­
nious little trio for oboe, harp, and viola from his Seven Studies on Themes of Paul
Klee, Gunther Schuller successfully uses a range of new techniques to simulate
the sound of an Arab dance. Notice that specific instructions for the instruments
are clearly given, an important addition to any score that requires unorthodox
methods of sound production.
C D -4/TR. 2 6

e x a m p l e 8 - 4 3 . G. Schuller, Seven Studies on Themes of Paul Klee, "Arab Village/
mm. 60-73 (harp, solo viola, and cello not recorded)

Allegro (J = ca. 136)

Ob. 1 t f s

Hp.

r r

i J b j T T r r J - |6

[ р

к

р

j)y щ

J, Ifl

р

—

*R = V i tone lower

ш

-

ЗМ), dJ)
г
j_ lL p

H i
| | .j

§

Д - Л iffЛ Р Ш

s f l Л Л -If

Р

I»~g
i- P / Г Г-Ч-U
r

f

n~>

i
1

Ob. 1

Hp.

Via. solo

The harp tunes 1

Eand

V a tone lower

On the Oboe, the fingeringis as follows:
•

О

°

•

О
О

О с key

the flat B4: ~ ® *ey the flat

•

Many excerpts from Polish scores show a variety of brand-new effects. In
the following excerpts from Krzysztof Penderecki's Dies irae, winds first play
the highest pitch they are able to produce, then they trill on specified notes un­
til the end of the dark line with the arrow.
exa m ple

a-44. Penderecki, Dies irae, "Apocalypsis," mm. 2-4

FI. 1,2
Picc.
FI. 3,4
3 0b.

Alt. Sax. 1,2

Bar. Sax.

3 Bsn.

Cbsn.

Jf

C D -4/T R . 2 7

289

N PR A C TIC E

S C O R IN G F O R W O O D W IN D S A N D W O O D W IN D -ST R IN G C O M B IN A T IO N S

IN PRACTICE
ORCHESTRATION

290

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

In his lrisation for Orchestra, Marek Stachowski asks the wind players to remove
the mouthpieces and blow through them.
c d -4 / t r .

28

e x a m p le

e-45. Stachowski, lrisation for Orchestra, third movement, mm. 79-83

79

Solo and chamber music for woodwinds is generally more technically ad­
vanced than orchestral passages for these instruments. One reason is acoustical:
since many contemporary woodwind effects are very soft, they come off more
effectively in smaller, more intimate groups playing in smaller halls. In addition,
usually only a few players are able (or in some cases willing) to perform these
techniques. Some techniques are more successful when performed on certain
makes of instruments; for example, some of the multiphonics mentioned in
some texts published in Europe,* are extremely difficult to produce on
American-made instruments. If a composer hears a certain sound in the inner
ear and consults with an experienced professional, all things are possible.

‘ Such as B. Bartolozzi's New Sounds for Woodwinds (London: Oxford University Press, 1967).

T r a n s c r i b i n g f r o m P iano
to Winds and S tr in g s
Before you set out to transcribe or orchestrate a piece written by another com­
poser, it is important to study carefully that composer's orchestration tech­
niques as found in his or her other works—carefully noting preferences and
even idiosyncraties—in order to maintain the composer's style in the new ver­
sion. This is particularly true in the case of wind instruments. Which wind in­
struments does the composer favor? For what kinds of gestures does the
composer use winds? What kinds of doublings are most characteristic? Answers
to these questions can provide much insight into the individual sound of that
composer.
Let us take two examples of transcriptions in which the material seems to
call for a harmonic pedal. The first is of the beginning of the final movement of
Mozart's Piano Sonata in A major, K. 331. Since it is marked "alia Turca" ("in
the Turkish style"), we have used reed instruments for the sustained tonic and
dominant pitches.
exa m ple

b -4 6 .

Mozart, Piano Sonata, K. 331, third movement, mm. 1-8

a. PIANO VERSION
Alia Turca

b. ORCHESTRAL VERSION

291

PRA CTIC E

W o o d w i n d s a n d Wo o d w i n d - S t r i n g C o m b i n a t i o n s

IN

fo r

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

The second example is the first eight measures of a short piano piece by Robert
Schumann. We have used winds in pairs. The sparse harmonic setting of the
piano version has been filled out in the orchestral version by the addition of the
pedal (easily played first by the clarinets and then by the bassoon) as well as by
octave doubling and, after the double bar, by the addition of 3rds and other
chord tones, all of which produce a lusher orchestral sound. Schumann's own
orchestrations are usually quite heavy, with many octave doublings; therefore,
our transcription is consistent with his style.

OR CH ESTR A TIO N

IN P R A C T I C E

292

exa m ple

a-47. Schumann, "Melody," mm. 1-8

a. PIANO VERSION

C D -4/T R. 3 0

b. ORCHESTRAL VERSION

PRA CTICE

293

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S C O R IN G F O R W O O D W IN D S A N D W O O D W IN D -S T R IN G C O M B IN A T IO N S

Can orchestration be taught? Of course it can, if you sharpen your ear by be­
coming familiar with the orchestral repertoire and carefully analyzing each in­
teresting sound you hear, so that you can reproduce that sound in future
orchestrations. Keep these factors in mind when we discuss orchestrating the
brass and percussion sections, alone and in combination with the strings and
winds, in Chapters 11 and 14, as well as scoring for full orchestra in Chapter 15.
I

FOR FURTHER STUDY

Flute, Piccolo:
Bizet, Carmen, Entr'acte before Act IV (flute and cello)
Debussy, Iberia, first movement, mm. 309-329 (two piccolos)
Debussy, Pelleas el Melisande, Act II, 3-7 mm. after [40| (flute)
LutosJ'awski, Little Suite, beginning (piccolo)
Ravel, L'enfant et les sortileges, 1 m. after [Щ] to [51] (flute flutter tongue)
Ravel, Piano Concerto in G, first movement, beginning (piccolo); third
movement, 4 mm. after [lO] to [TT] (low flute with bassoon)
Schoenberg, Pierrot Lunaire, "Der Mondfleck" (piccolo)
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 15, first movement, beginning (long flute solo
with strings)
Wagner, Tristan und Isolde, Act П, beginning (flute solo)
Oboe, English Horn:
Bach, St. Matthew Passion, beginning (oboes doubled by flutes)
Barber, The School for Scandal, Overture (oboe melody at [C], English horn at |Й1)
Chou Wen-chung, Landscapes, [ТИП (oboe and English horn)
Honegger, Symphony No. 1, second movement, beginning (oboe, then English
horn and flute)
Mozart, Piano Concerto, K. 467, third movement, mm. 7&-118 (typical Classical
use of oboe)
Piston, Symphony No. 2, first movement, [55]—[60] (1st oboe melody, 2nd oboe
accompaniment)

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

294

T he stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Schoenberg, Kammersymphonie, Op. 9b, nun. 285-330
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, third movement, beginning to [T] and f9~l—[To]
(oboe)
Stravinsky, Capriccio, second movement, beginning (typical Stravinsky scoring
for double reeds)
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 2, third movement, Trio (oboes in combination
with clarinets, bassoons, horns, then violins)
Clarinet, Bass Clarinet, El>or D Clarinet:
Bart6k, Concerto for Orchestra, fourth movement, |84|-|120] (trills, tremolos for
three clarinets)
Copland, Symphony No. 3, fourth movement, from Ill2| to end (effective Et
clarinet writing); study second and fourth movements for most effective allaround woodwind writing
Dvorak, Symphony No. 9 ("From the New World"), fourth movement, 2 mm.
before [3] Gongmelody)
Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto, third movement, mm. 687-688 (clarinet echoes
solo violin)
Sibelius, Symphony No. 1, first movement, beginning (long clarinet solo)
R. Strauss, Ein Heldenleben, 2 mm. before |34|to [35] (two clarinets, tremolo)
Stravinsky, Oedipus Rex, (lOOl—|l07| (interesting three-clarinet passages)
Tchaikovsky, Nutcracker Suite, "Dance of the Sugarplum Fairy" (bass clarinet in
low register)
Toch, Chinese Flute, "Confucius" (El>clarinet used like a trumpet)
Bassoon, Contrabassoon:
Beethoven, Symphony No. 9, last movement at Andante maestoso (two bassoons
and contrabassoon)
Bizet, L'Arlesienne Suite No. 1, first movement, mm. 120-137 (bassoon triplets)
Brahms, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 9-15; last movement, mm.
274-280 (large skips in bassoon)
Ravel, Piano Concerto for the Left Hand, first 8 mm. (contrabassoon solo)
Sibelius, Symphony No. 5, first movement, 2 mm. after [К] to [T7| (long bassoon
solo in the upper register)
R. Strauss, Ein Heldenleben, at [37| (three bassoons)
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4, second movement, m. 275 (high register)
Saxophone:
Gershwin, An American in Paris, 9 mm. after (45] to [64] (alto, tenor, and baritone
saxophones)
Milhaud, La creation du monde, throughout (alto saxophone)
Petrassi, Partita, throughout (alto saxophone)
A. Read Thomas, Sinfonia, throughout (soprano saxophone)
Works with Very Large Woodwind Sections:
D. Asia, Gateways (winds in fours, including alto flute)
I. Barzelan, Symphony No. 6 (includes tenor recorder)
H.Brian, Symphony No. 2 (includes four piccolos, two English horns, and two
bass clarinets)
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe (Suites 1 and 2)
G. Schuller, Farbenspiel (= Concerto for Orchestra No. 3: two piccolos, two
English horns, contrabass clarinet)
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps (throughout)

9
In t r o d u c t i o n т о
B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

The brass section of the orchestra has great dynamic power, which we can hear
in the following example.
e x a m p le 9-1. R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 3 7 -4 0

C D -3/T R. 3 1

Brass instruments were originally outdoor instruments, used for hunting,
military functions, and the announcement of civil disasters. They were also
heard in church, but, until the sixteenth century, only for occasions that de­
manded fanfares. These instruments were not widely employed in composed
music until their unwieldy shapes and mechanisms were made more manage­
able, a process that took place largely in the nineteenth century.
The use of brass instruments within the modem symphony orchestra has
been standardized only rather recently, and in some cases is still ongoing. For
instance, in 1955 Walter Piston stated that trumpets in D "appear rarely" in the
orchestra,* but since that date many trumpeters have taken up the instrument
and it now appears frequently.
•Walter Piston, Orchestration (New York: W. W. Norton), p. 207.

295

296

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

It is imperative that you pay dose attention to the evolution and develop­
ment of this choir to understand more dearly how composers of the past wrote
for it. In addition, with today's increased interest in the accurate performance of
early music, we must be cognizant of issues concerning the use of brass instru­
ments, particularly those played before 1650; these issues are no longer relevant
today. We must be aware that the early brass instruments—espedally trumpets
and horns—had a different sound; players employed techniques and rules of in­
tonation that were different from modern ones. The character and gestures of
the music played by these instruments were dictated by a different set of con­
straints, which around the middle of the nineteenth century slowly began to re­
semble those that apply now.
Today, brass instruments suffer from few of the limitations that formerly
frustrated their players, and brass players are among the most agile and versa­
tile members of the modem orchestra. Composers are no longer hampered by
any limitations of brass instruments, other than possibly range.
Since the full force of the brass section can easily overshadow the rest of the
orchestra, the orchestrator must always find ways to balance the brass with the
woodwind and string sections. Also, the brass section cannot be expected to
play as softly as the strings and winds, although the pianissimo of a nonmuted
brass section is a unique orchestral effect. We will discuss the question of bal­
ance at greater length in Chapter 11, where combinations of the orchestral
choirs are explored.

COMPOSITION OF THE B R A S S SECTION
The brass section of the modem symphony orchestra is usually made up of four
horns, three trumpets, three trombones, and a tuba. Larger numbers of these in­
struments may be employed, and some composers augment this basic core of
instruments with comets, euphoniums, and Wagner tubas. In some early nine­
teenth-century scores we often find the outmoded ophideide, whose parts are
mostly performed on the tuba today.
The brass choir, which is more homogeneous than the woodwind section, is
often divided into two groups:
1. thehoms;
2. the trumpets, trombones, and tubas.
This division reflects the different use the horns have from other brass instru­
ments; in addition to being part of the brass choir they have been employed as
adjuncts to the woodwind section because of their unique ability to blend with
and strengthen the woodwind sound.
This division also reflects the shape of each instrument's mouthpiece: the
funnel-shaped mouthpiece of the horn versus the cuplike, shallow mouthpieces
of the trumpets, trombones, and tubas.

In t r o d u c t i o n t o B r a s s i n s t r u m e n t s

297

The different shapes and sizes of M o u t h p i e c e s o n M o d e r n B r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s
brass mouthpieces govern the timbre of
the individual brass instruments. For in­
stance, the trumpet's cuplike, shallow
mouthpiece makes its tone much more
brilliant than that of the horn, whose fimnel-shaped mouthpiece makes its sound
much more mellow. Forsyth has given us
an excellent generalization to remember:
"the shallower the cup, the more brilliant
Trombone
Tu b a
the tone.''*
Another but just as significant division reflects the way brass instruments
are constructed. Today each brass instrument is made with a combination of
cylindrical and conical tubing: trumpets and trombones mostly of cylindrical
tubing and horns and tubas mostly of conical tubing.
We can also classify brass instruments in terms of transposition:
1. transposing—horns, trumpets, and comets;
2. nontransposing—trombones, all tubas, and euphoniums.

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s a n d t h e
w r it ten O r c h e s t r a l S c o r e
The arrangement of the brass choir on the orchestral page has some historic pe­
culiarities. The brass instruments are placed right below the woodwinds on the
score page in the following order:
four horns
three trumpets
three trombones
tuba
Notice that the horns, which are really the "altos" of the orchestral brass section,
are placed above the trumpets. Most likely this is for historical reasons: either
because the horns were regular members of the symphony orchestra before the
trumpets, or because, in the Classical orchestra, trumpets were used in combi­
nation with timpani and the two were placed in proximity. In modem band
scores this practice has often been changed so that the trumpets are placed
above the horns. (See the score setups in Chapter 19.)
Horn and trumpet parts are usually written without key signatures. Brass
parts in older scores were always written in the key of C, the instrument itself
supplying pitches in the appropriate key. But in most orchestral scores even
today it is common practice to notate horn and trumpet parts without key sig­
natures and to mark all accidentals as they occur. Most orchestral performers
prefer this manner of notation, although those playing band scores usually en­
counter parts with key signatures. Trombone and tuba players are used to read­
ing key signatures, since their parts—particularly those from nineteenth-century
scores—have always been notated that way.
"Cecil Forsyth, Orchestration (New York: Macmillan, 1949), p. 90.

T he stu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

The number of staves used per brass instrument is similar to the arrange­
ment used for winds. For four horns, use two staves, with Horns 1 and 2 on the
first, and Horns 3 and 4 on the second. We will discuss other, special ways to
arrange four horns on a score page in the next chapter.
The three trumpets are also placed on two staves, with Trumpets 1 and 2 on
the first and Trumpet 3 on the second. However, if the notation for the three
trumpets is so complex that it cannot be clearly notated on two staves, use three
staves, one for each trumpet. Follow this practice also for horns as needed.
The modern symphony orchestra usually has three trombones: two tenor
trombones, whose parts are written on one staff, and a bass trombone, occupy­
ing a second staff. In some cases the bass trombone shares a staff with the tuba,
but we discourage this practice, since it makes the parts harder to read.
In the orchestral brass section there is usually only one tuba, which has its
own staff. When more tubas are called for, they are usually notated on the same
staff. All euphoniums or Wagner tubas, however, are placed between the bass
trombone staff and the tuba staff.

Ov er blo w in g and t h e P r in c iple
o f t h e Ha r m o n ic S e r i e s
Up to the mid-nineteenth century trumpets and horns were not equipped with
valves or pistons to play a variety of pitches, as they are today. Instead, the per­
former executed different pitches on these "natural" instruments by overblow­
ing the fundamental tone of that instrument, which produced the upper partials
of the fundamental's overtone series. Each natural brass instrument consisted of
a hollow tube governed by a single fundamental pitch; the longer the tube, the
lower the fundamental pitch of that brass instrument. By blowing comfortably
through the tube (with an appropriate mouthpiece), the player produced the
fundamental pitch of that tube; by overblowing the tube, the player produced
the fundamental's overtones. An eight-foot-long tube, theoretically capable of
sounding C2 as its fundamental, produces the following series of tones:
exa m ple

9-2. Harmonic Series on С

The skilled player of a natural brass instrument can isolate each of these
pitches, or partials, by embouchure manipulation and breath control. The player
must have a mental concept of what the pitch sounds like as well as how it feels
in order to execute that pitch clearly.
Performers encounter the following constraints when playing natural brass
instruments (again, those without valves or pistons to change pitches):
1. The pitches that can be sounded are entirely dependent on the length of the
instrument's tube, which determines its inherent fundamental tone and
the harmonic series built from that tone. For example, on an instrument

INTRODUCTION TO B R A S S IN STR U M EN TS

whose fundamental tone is C2—as in Example 9-2 above—under normal
circumstances the performer could not play any of the following notes or
any chromatic alterations of them:*
e x a m p l e 9-3 . Unplayable Notes with C2 Fundamental

2. For beginners, the fundamental, called the pedal tone (see p. 303), is usually
difficult to produce.
3. Although all pitches up to the twenty-first partial in the harmonic series are
theoretically producible on a brass instrument, most players cannot produce
pitches above the sixteenth partial.
4. When executed on natural instruments, certain partials—particularly the
seventh, eleventh, thirteenth, and fourteenth—are out of tune compared
with the corresponding pitches of our present tempered scale. In addition,
the two major seconds between partials eight and nine, and nine and ten are
intervals of unequal length and need to be adjusted when played. Today,
some composers want this out-of-tune sound as a special effect. For instance,
for his Serenade Benjamin Britten specifies that the following passage be
played on an "open" horn, which produces many out-of-tune pitches (indi­
cated by the x's in the example). To play this passage on a modem hom but
as Britten intended, the performer should play the series on F without ma­
nipulating the pitches by means of the valves.
exa m ple

9 - 4 . Britten, Serenade, Prologue, mm. 1-14

Andante (J = 80)

sem pre a d lib itu m

PP

C D -3/T R. 3 2

poco accel.

* b-

PPP-

Bach, Handel, Vivaldi, Telemann, and their contemporaries were daring
and demanding in their brass writing, and the virtuosos of their day made the
upper range their specialty. When a trumpet player found certain notes out of
tune or "missing" from the harmonic series that governed the instrument, he or
she corrected or "found" these notes by varying the embouchure. For instance,

'As we shall see later in this chapter and in Chapter 10, skilled performers overcame this
problem in certain ways, but in doing so they sacrificed good intonation and tone quality.

299

300

The Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

in the following passage, written for F trumpet (transposing a perfect 4th up),
players most likely had difficulty with two pitches, F5 and A5 (denoted with a v
underneath the score), which they needed to alter while maintaining the rapid
tempo:
e x a m p le 9-5 . Bach, Brandenburg Concerto No. 2, first movement,

mm. 2 8 -3 0
29

12

'fr

14v 15 14» 15 16

15 14v 16

8

9 1011*1210 14» 11» 9 11» 6 9 12 11» 10 11» 12 10 8

The player likely lowered the F5 (the eleventh partial) by manipulating the em­
bouchure, and played the A5, normally badly out of tune, by using the four­
teenth partial but flattening it substantially. The horn player, in addition to
manipulating the embouchure, could also shorten the tube and thereby raise the
pitch by placing the right hand into the bell of the instrument.
Classical composers seldom asked for notes higher than the twelfth partial.
In the following two representative examples, the player needs to adjust the
eleventh partial on a natural brass instrument:
C D -3/T R . 3 4
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exa m ple

э-6. Mozart, Symphony No. 40, third movement, mm. 74-78

C D -3/T R . 3 4
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 2

e x a m p le

9-7 . Beethoven, Piano Concerto No. 5, first movement, mm. 43-47
44

&Hd.
9

6

10 9 8
86 5

9
6

10 9 10
8 6 8

9
6

10 9 10
8 6 8

11»
9

By Beethoven's time the range of natural brass instruments had expanded
upward; in the following example the El> horns play pitches up to the sixteenth
partial (C6). The B5 in Horn 1 and E)5 in Horn 3 will need slight adjustments,
which are easy to execute in this very high register.
C D -3/T R. 3 5

exa m ple

0Hn. 1,2

EV Hn. 3

9 -e.

Beethoven, Symphony No. 3, third movement, mm. 174-181

IN T R O D U C T IO N TO B R A S S IN S T R U M E N T S

C r o o k s , Va l v e s , a n d S l i d e s
The Introduction of Crooks and
Valves on Trumpets and Horns
By the time of Haydn, a mechanism had been invented that allowed trumpets
and horns to play notes outside a single harmonic series. We know that the
pitch of the fundamental depends on the length of the tube; it was found that by
adding extra tubing, a player could produce another harmonic series on the
same instrument. This added pipe, called a crook, was U-shaped and inserted at
certain points along the length of the original tube.
The composer could decide which series to start the piece in, and the player,
given a little time, could change the series anywhere in the piece and perform in
another key by inserting the appropriate crook for that key (see Chapter 10, pp.
314 and 328, for a list of the most important crooks used at the time). Of course,
the player was still limited to the notes in the harmonic series governed by the
new length of tubing.
During the eighteenth century, both trumpets and horns remained transpos­
ing instruments, since it was much easier for the performer to read music in С
and let the particular transposition of the instrument (and the crook used) take
care of transposing the passage to the required key. The following example
shows how "horn 5ths" sound, depending on which natural instrument plays
them (see also Example 15-13):
exa m ple

9 -9. Horn 5ths

The next improvement, early in the nineteenth century, concerned the invention
of valves (both rotary and piston), but it was not until the middle of that century that
the system of valves was refined enough to gain acceptance by performers.
The valve system functions in this manner: three coiled tubes are permanently
attached to the main tube inside the main loop. Each of the attached coils can be acti­
vated, or joined, to the main stream of air by a valve easily operable by the per­
former's left hand. Pressing the piston or lever opens up the extra tubing and
thereby accomplishes instantly what the changing of crooks did previously.
Usually there are three valves on the trumpet and horn. The first is closest to the
player, the second is in the middle, and the third is farthest away from the player.
Depressing only the first valve lowers a particular pitch of the harmonic series a
whole step. Depressing only the second lowers it a semitone. Depressing only the
third lowers it a tone and a half. Tubas often have a fourth valve that lowers the

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

T H E C O IL E D T U B E S O N A
Mo d e r n T r u m p e t

C o il e d T u b e s
Mo d er n H o r n

t h e

on a

pitch a perfect 4th. In addition, two or more valves may be depressed at the same
time. When a player depresses more than one valve, the actions described above are
combined; for instance, depressing valves 2 and 3 lowers the pitch a major 3rd. The
valve system has enabled these brass instruments to play passages that are com­
pletely chromatic.

The Use of the Slide on Trombones
The fifteenth-century trombone closely resembles its modem counterpart in the
manner in which it is constructed and played. Both instruments are made of
two U-shaped pieces of tubing, one of which slides into the other. The player
changes pitches by sliding the two pieces together or apart. This slide mecha­
nism enables the trombonist to change the total length of the tube with precision
and produce perfect intonation, as well as produce pitches that are completely
chromatic. He or she still controls the notes of the overtone series by means of
embouchure manipulation.
The tenor trombone has seven positions of the slide, each of which produces
its own fundamental pitch:
positions:! II III IV V

fundamentals: Bt A At G
P o s it io n s

o f th e

Gt

VI

VII

F

E

T r o m b o n e S l id e

Each of the resulting seven fundamentals canies its own harmonic series. With
practice the player can change position—which changes the fundamental—al­
most instantaneously. The following chart shows how the various combinations
of valves on the trumpet and hom correspond to the seven trombone positions:

In t r o d u c t i o n t o b r a s s i n s t r u m e n t s
m p a r in g

T r u m p e t a n d H o r n V a l v e s w it h T r o m b o n e P o s it io n s

Trumpet/Horn,
Valves Depressed

Trombone
Slide Position

Interval by Which
Pitch Is Lowered

None
No. 2
No. 1
No. 3, or nos. 1 and 2
Nos. 2 and 3
Nos. 1 and 3
Nos. 1,2, and 3

first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh

none
semitone
whole tone
minor third
major third
perfect fourth
augmented fourth

Fine Tuning
Each modem brass instrument has a tuning slide as part of its mechanism,
which allows slight pitch adjustments as necessary. Pulling the tuning slide out
will add tubing to the instrument and lower the pitch slightly; pushing the slide
in will shorten the tube and raise the pitch slightly. If greater pitch discrepancies
need to be fixed, the valve slide as well as the timing slide may have to be
adjusted.

RANGE
The range of each brass instrument depends on the length of its tubing as well
as the width of its bore. Generally speaking, the wider the bore, the easier it is to
produce lower notes or partials on the instrument; conversely, the narrower the
bore, the easier it is to produce higher partials.
The fundamental tones on each brass instrument are called pedal tones. Most
modem brass instruments have several such tones, each corresponding to a fun­
damental pitch. For instance, since there are seven playing positions on the
trombone, each governed by a different fundamental, there are seven pedal
tones. On the trumpet and hom, each of the several pedal tones corresponds to
a particular valve or set of valves depressed at any given time. Pedal tones are
more difficult to play on brass instruments than the upper partials, and are most
commonly written for the trombone and hom in modem symphonic and solo
literature. Recently, however, composers have been borrowing the use of pedal
tones on the trumpet from jazz and writing them into their orchestral scores.
The full range for each brass instrument will be given in Chapter 10.

T o n e P r o d u c t io n , A r t ic u l a t io n ,
a n d T o n g u in g
таицг и и шяшм 1впнашю«гшд»-

Just as woodwind players use their reeds as a source of vibration, so do brass
players use their lips. In both sets of instruments the vibrating column of air
is then amplified and channeled through the instrument. Generally, the

304

th e

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

embouchure on brass instruments is as follows: the player keeps the lips loose
for low notes and tightens them as he or she moves up into the higher registers.
Tonguing on brass instruments is similar to tonguing on wind instruments.
All types of tonguing can be executed, with single, double, and triple tonguing
being the most feasible. A great variety of attacks is possible on all brass instru­
ments, although the particular constraints of each brass instrument make cer­
tain attacks and articulations problematic, especially on extremely low notes
that require a loose embouchure. Conversely, in the extremely high register, soft
attacks and controlled articulations are quite difficult to execute because of the
required firmness of lips and velocity of breath required to produce these ef­
fects. In Chapter 10 we will discuss those techniques available to each instru­
ment in turn.

Breathing and Phrasing
Brass instruments require a great deal more wind than woodwinds do. Because
playing these instruments is rather taxing, the composer or orchestrator should
allow frequent intervals of rest so that the players can catch their breath and
their Ups can recuperate.
Phrasing is very much like that for woodwinds. All slurred phrases are per­
formed in one breath. If a passage is not slurred in the score it will be tongued
by the player, each note articulated separately. In a loud passage in a slow
tempo, you should not phrase too many notes in one breath, since it takes more
wind to play loudly than softly.

C o m m o n C h a r a c t e r is t ic s an d E f f e c t s
o n a l l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s
Attacks and Tonguing
Sforzando and the Forte-piano Attack
Brass instruments can execute sforzando attacks better than any other instru­
ments of the orchestra:
CD-3H"R. 3 6

E X A M P L E 9-10.

Sforzando

in t r o d u c t io n t o

B r a s s in s t r u m e n t s

Light, Soft, Fast Tonguing
This effect can be accomplished so that it sounds very delicate and not
brassy.
exam ple

9-11. Debussy, Jeux, 7 mm. after [35]

CD-3/TR. 3 7

Assez anime
_______

s im .

CTpt.

p tu p p

Double Tonguing
Double tonguing is executed using the syllables "tuh-kuh" or "teh-keh."
exam ple

9 - 1 2 . Ravel, Rapsodie espagnole, "Feria," at [б]

C D -3/T R . 3 8

Assez anime (J. - 76)

Triple Tonguing
Triple tonguing is executed using the syllables "tuh-kuh-tuh" or "tuh-tuhkuh" ("teh-keh-teh" or "teh-teh-keh").
exam ple

9 - 1 3 . Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, third movement, at [g]

1 = 63

C D -3/T R. 3 9

305

306

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Flutter Tonguing
Flutter tonguing is very effective and easy to produce on all brass instru­
ments. In the following example, notice that the notation is similar to that indi­
cating flutter tonguing for woodwinds (see Example 7-16).
CD-3/TR. 4 0

exam ple

9 - 1 4 . R. Strauss, Don Quixote, Variation П, mm. 18-19

Glissandi
Horn and trumpet players can produce a glissando by using a lip slur. With nor­
mal lip pressure, this lip glissando will result in a high-speed rendering of that
portion of the harmonic series that falls between the beginning and ending
pitches played. However, many performers today are able to play a smooth
chromatic glissando by using either more or less lip pressure, depending on the
direction of the glissando.
Lip slurs are most effective in the upper register, where the partials are close
together; they are also much easier to play by slurring up than down, although
jazz trumpeters execute amazing glissandi (called "rips") in both directions.
(Listen to the excerpts in Chapter 11 in the sections titled "Jazz Effects" and
"New Techniques" for examples of jazz glissandi.) Both trumpet and horn glis­
sandi are sweeping gestures that sound exciting and not musically vulgar.
Because the trombone is able to play glissandi in both directions with relative
ease, it has been too often called on to show off this effect. Yet glissandi that are
appropriately used on this instrument are very effective and do not sound over­
done. The tuba is also able to perform glissandi but not so easily; glissandi for
tubas should be written upward, as they are slightly easier to play than down­
ward glissandi.

In t r o d u c t io n t o B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p l e 9 - 1 5 . Brass Glissandi

CD-3/TR. 41

Trills and Tremolos
Most brass instruments can perform some tremolos successfully; all are able to
play trills. On some instruments lip trills are preferable; on others the pistons or
valves are used. Some players combine both techniques, although obviously a
trombone player can use only lip trills (sometimes also called Up slurs). Since
each brass instrument executes these effects differently, we will examine trills
and tremolos on each brass instrument in the next chapter.

M UTES
All brass instruments can be muted. Muting can create a pianissimo that is incred­
ibly soft; however, mutes do not simply make the instrument softer, they also
change the character or color of the sound. In fact, hearing fortissimo muted pas­
sages played by the entire brass section can be a dynamic experience, and the ef­
fect has been used quite often in music written during the last hundred years.
exam ple

39-42

9 - 1 6 . Vaughan Williams, Symphony No. 6, fourth movement, mm.

CD-3/TR. 4 2

307

308

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -R O M

CD-3

H a n d -S t o p p e d
H orn

CD-ROM
CD-3
Mu ted
T rom bone

CD-ROM
CD-3
CUP MUTE

A brass mute is a cone-shaped plug that is inserted into the bell of the instru­
ment. On its sides are small blocks of cork, which prevent the mute from fitting
too tightly against the sides of the bell and make it easy to insert and remove.
There are a variety of mutes for the trumpet and trombone, but only one that is
practical for the horn and one'for the tuba. Euphoniums and Wagner tubas also
have mutes.
The horn player can achieve a muted effect by hand stopping, that is, push­
ing the hand tightly into the bell. Doing so, however, raises the pitch, and the
horn player needs to compensate by adjusting the hand in the bell or fingering
the note a half step lower. The commercial horn mute, however, corrects the al­
teration in pitch that would be caused by hand muting, so that the player can
perform the printed pitch.
Trumpet players usually carry several mutes with them, whereas trombon­
ists seldom have but one mute along, since the larger size of trombone mutes
makes them cumbersome to transport. If a trombonist does carry a mute most
likely it will be a straight one.
The different kinds of mutes available for trumpets and trombones are illus­
trated below. In orchestral music the straight mute is most often used. For all
mutes and muting devices other than the straight mute, the composer or orches­
trator must specify the exact name of the mute in the score and parts and give
any special instructions for using it.

Straight Mute
Both trumpet and trombone players
use this mute automatically when
con sordino is indicated in a work. A
performer can play either softly or
loudly with this mute. It is made of
either fiberboard or metal. The fiber
mute does not have as much cutting
edge as the very poignant-sounding
metal mute, especially in fortissimo
passages.

Cup Mute
Not commonly used in symphony orchestras, this
mute is more associated with jazz bands. The cup
is adjusted to suit the style of the piece performed.
For instance, when the whole section plays, the
cup is usually open about an inch; in solo work or
amplified playing, the cup is closed almost against
the bell to produce a dark, muffled tone. The cup
mute can also produce colorless, ghostlike, nasal
sounds.

in t r o d u c t io n t o

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

Harmon or Wa-Wa Mute

309

CD-ROM
CD-3

Harmon Mute

This mute is made out of metal and comes in two parts, the mute itself and the
"cookie cutter" stem. This stem can be adjusted to produce a variety of sounds or
change the tone: by removing the stem from the mute, extending the stem either
halfway or all the way, or using the right hand to open and close the opening of
the mute with the stem to obtain the "wa-wa" effect. In notation, the " + " means
closing the hand and the " o " sign means open­
ing it.
The sound of a trumpet with a fully assem­
bled harmon mute is penetrating and shimmer­
ing. The harmon mute is seldom used in the
symphony orchestra except for comical effects,
siich as in Lucien Cailliet's arrangement of Pop
Goes the Weasel or the "wa-wa" jazz effects in
Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. This mute sounds
much duller when inserted into a trombone
bell.

Whispa Mute
This is the softest of all the mutes and makes the instru­
ment sound as if it were played somewhere offstage. If
the instrument is played very softly, it produces almost
inaudible sounds.
The whispa mute is made like the harmon mute
and works on the same principle. The sound is forced
through a chamber filled with sound-absorbent mater­
ial, and small holes allow only a little bit of sound to
escape. It takes more effort to play the instrument with
this mute, and extremely high notes are very difficult
to produce.

Solotone Mute
This mute also works like a harmon mute, with all the
air passing through the device and none escaping
along the sides. The tone is diminished and then rein­
forced in the first chamber, and leaves that chamber
through a cardboard tube permanently mounted
within. The tone is centered and well focused by a
megaphone-shaped cone as it leaves the tube, and has
a nasal character, as if it were coming through an oldfashioned radio or telephone. Ferde Grofe asks for this
mute in his arrangement for small orchestra of the "On
the Trail" movement (trombone solo) from his Grand
Canyon Suite.

CD-ROM
CD-3

SOLOTONE MUTE

310

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -R O M

CD-3

I Bucket Mute

BUCKET MUTE

--------------------- The bucket mute, sometimes called the velvetone mute, is constucted in such a way that it
completely blocks most of the sound, letting
only a small amount of air pass around its
edges. This makes not only a soft tone but
also a very mellow one.

Mu t in g D e v i c e s O t h e r

than

Mu t e s

Plunger
This six-inch rubber bowl with a small handle muffles the
sound. A player can produce popping sounds by holding
the mute very close to the bell and playing very fast notes.

Hat or Derby
This device is usually used in jazz bands but in any style of music it effectively
reduces the intensity of the trumpet or trombone without distorting the sound.

Putting the Hand over the Bell or in the Bell
This procedure dampens the trumpet or trombone's sound but is not as effec­
tive as using mutes. It will produce pitch variation, and the composer or orches­
trator specifying this procedure must be aware of this. If desired, this procedure
can produce simultaneous pitch variations and muting.

Playing into the Stand
Often called for in jazz playing, this technique can reduce the loudness and bril­
liance of both the trumpet and the trombone. The player places the bell of the in­
strument about two inches from the stand, thereby lowering the dynamic level.

Inserting a Cloth or Handkerchief in the Bell
Charles Ives used this procedure effectively for the trumpet in The Unanswered
Question. A few modern composers have also asked for it. It reduces the volume

In t r o d u c t i o n t o B r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

and brilliance of the sound without causing any change in pitch and leaves the
player in perfect control of the instrument, not having to strain for either high or
low notes.
■

a d d it io n a l

p a s s a g e s

f o r

s t u d y

Berg, Lulu Suite, 2 mm. before |690|- [700l (muted brass beginning softly and
making a crescendo to fortissimo)
Copland, Lincoln Portrait, |200|- [20l1 (mezzo forte muted brass)

l O
In d i v i d u a l B r a s s
In s t r u m e n t s

HORN
Com o (It.), Cor (Fr .)

It is a mystery why the term French
horn has persisted for this instrument
in England and America, since most of
the developments concerning its con­
struction occurred in Germany. A pos­
sible explanation could be that in the
earliest orchestral uses of the instru­
/у':- ■
ment (around 1710), especially in
Germany and England, horn parts
were often marked with the French
О
'Л
designation cor de chasse (hunting
/.%*
4yl f * J /
horn); Bach, however, usually used
the equivalent Italian term сото da
caccia. In this book we will refer to the
instrument simply as "horn."
The unique status of the horn is ap­
parent in its many different functions
within ensembles. In chamber music
Verne Reynolds, horn
composers have treated the horn
sometimes as a woodwind instrument, other times as a brass instrument; wit­
ness its role as a member of both the woodwind quintet and the brass quintet. In
orchestral music its distinctive timbre has been called on to symbolize such dis­
parate notions as cuckoldry, in eighteenth-century Mozartian opera, and hero­
ism, in nineteenth-century symphonic music.
The horn has as much agility as any other brass instrument, and is an excel­
lent solo instrument as well as a successful doubler. Even though the horn has a
mellower sound than the trumpet, it possesses enough brilliance and carrying
power in loud passages to be heard over almost any combination of instru­
ments. But because of its velvetlike tone quality, especially in the middle regis­
ter, the horn choir makes a wonderful accompaniment for any solo instrument.
There are two distinct kinds of horns:
1. the natural horn, sometimes called the hand horn (сото naturale, [It.]; cor
simple [Fr.]; Waldhom [Ger.]);

I n d i v i d u a l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

2. the valve horn, which is used in most orchestras today (сото ventile [It.]; cor
й pistons [Fr.]; Ventilhom [Ger.]).

The Natural Horn
The natural horn is constructed from a coil of brass tubing a quarter inch in di­
ameter at the opening where the mouthpiece is inserted, and expanding to
about three inches at the throat of the bell. The bell then flares until it is about
eleven inches in diameter.

Range
The basic natural horn was an eight-foot-long tube with the fundamental
pitch C.
ю - i . Range of the Natural Horn

exam ple
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

CHn.

Most Classical composers seldom asked the horn player to produce any pitch
above the twelfth partial. From Beethoven on, however, partials up to the six­
teenth were commonly used. Later composers such as Brahms and Wagner,
who had access to valve horns, continued to score for the natural horn, fre­
quently drawing on the higher partials.
The fundamental on the natural horn was usually not playable, so the per­
former had eleven good notfes out of the possible sixteen partials. These notes
are shown in Example 10-1 as whole notes. The notes with x's over them were
very badly out of tune and had to be adjusted by inserting the hand in the bell if
they were flat or by loosening the embouchure if they were sharp. The term
hand horn reflects the performer's proficiency in correcting flat partials by rais­
ing the pitches with the hand in the bell or even producing some pitches not
part of the series. Combining right-hand manipulation with skillful em­
bouchure control, the horn player could successfully perform passages such as
the following from Schubert's С-major Symphony. All notes stopped with the
hand are designated by "+ ," unstopped notes by "o
e x a m p le i 0-2 . Schubert, Symphony No. 9, first movement, mm. 1-8

Andante
CHn.
P

pp

The difference in sound between stopped and unstopped notes is quite notice­
able, since inserting the right hand into the bell also mutes the instrument and
subsequently changes the sound's tone color.

314

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Transposition
It was the practice to use various crooks to change the fundamental and
with it its entire harmonic series. Each crook produced a hom in a different
transposition. These crooks were either fitted to the end of the tube near the
horn's mouthpiece, or in later years were slid into the tubing where the tuning
slide was usually placed. The following crooks were the most popular during
the eighteenth century and the early part of the nineteenth century:
Нот in

Sounding (Transposition)

С alto
Bl>alto
A
At
G
F
E
El>
D
С basso
Bl>basso
A basso

sounds as written
a major 2nd lower than notated
a minor 3rd lower than notated
a major 3rd lower than notated
a perfect 4th lower than notated
a perfect 5th lower than notated
a minor 6th lower than notated
a major 6th lower than notated
a minor 7th lower than notated
an octave lower than notated
a major 9th lower than notated
an octave and a minor 3rd lower than notated

Notice that all natural homs except the С alto transpose downward.
The words alto and basso describe specific crooks. Here, alto means high and
basso low, adding an octave to the regular (alto) transposition of the hom. If the
word basso does not appear in the score, then the player uses the alto transposi­
tion of the instrument.
In addition to the crooks in the table above, others were less frequently used,
such as G basso and even В basso (Brahms, Symphony No. 1). Some rare trans­
positions using alto crooks can be found in Haydn's "Farewell" Symphony (Ff),
Massenet's Phxdre (Dl>), and Bizet's Carmen (Dl>).

Divided Homs
Since the beginning of orchestral hom playing it has been the practice to di­
vide natural homs into firsts and seconds. This separation allows one player
(the first, or cor alto) to play "high hom" and the other (the second, or cor basso)
to play "low hom." Toward the latter part of the eighteenth century the range of
each of these hom parts was fairly established:
exam p le

1 o -3 . Differences in Range of the Cor Basso and Cor Alto

Hn. 2 (cor basso)

ш

р р щ

Hn. 1 (cor a/to)

й а

ф р и й ш

Lower hom players often used a larger mouthpiece to facilitate the playing of
the lower notes, and by loosening the embouchure were even able to play the
pedal notes G2 and C2. Since natural homs are still used in some European or­
chestras, such as the Philharmonic orchestras of Vienna and Berlin, hom players

In d i v i d u a l

b r a s s

in s t r u m e n t s

wall use the larger mouthpiece and train their embouchure to bend pitches
downward for those pieces, such as Haydn's early Symphony in G major, that
call for this.
The leading horn players of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth cen­
turies favored the F crook's brighter tone, particularly when compared with the
more sombre and darker timbre of the Et and D crooks. This practice most likely
led to the adoption, later in the nineteenth century, of the basic valve horn in F,
which was the prototype of the first completely chromatic instrument.

The Valve Horn

C D-R O M
C D-3
HORN

For a period of roughly fifty years the natural horn and the valve horn coex­
isted. Composers and performers may have continued to use the natural horn
because they distrusted the new instrument's mechanism, or perhaps because
they preferred the outdoor, "hunting" quality of the natural horn. But by the be­
ginning of the twentieth century, most likely in response to the chromatic com­
plexities of the music from Wagner on, the valve horn became the standard
instrument in symphony orchestras. Beautiful hom passages, especially by
Brahms and Bruckner, continued to be written for natural or hand hom, but
many of these actually sound better and are more accurately in tune when
played on the valve hom.
Construction
The valve hom has three rotary valves, manipulated by the index, middle,
and ring fingers of the player's left hand, which activate the coiled tubes inside
the main loop of tubing. These valves, with the two sets of main tubing de­
scribed below, render the modem hom completely chromatic.
Our modem instrument is basically an F valve hom. But to it an even
greater improvement has been made: that of adding another set of coiled tubing
to create what we call a double hom. The main set of tubing on this instrument,
that of the F hom, is approximately twelve feet long. The additional set, that of
the Bl> alto hom (also called the Bb division), is approximately nine feet long and
activated by a trigger worked by the left thumb that cuts off three feet of the F
horn's tubing.
The double hom is clearly a practical solution to the demands of composers
who write higher and higher pitches, which are much easier to produce on the
Bt alto, with its shorter length of tubing. (On the Bl>hom the twelfth partial is the
same pitch as the sixteenth partial on the F hom.) When writing for double hom
the composer or orchestrator simply notates for F hom; the performer will
choose whether to play on the F or Bt division.

Range and Registral Characteristics
e x a m p le

10- 4 . Range of t h e Valve Hom in F

Written:
Pedal notes of Bl>division

Sounding:

315

316

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

The modern horn has a very large range, but certain notes are difficult to pro­
duce on it. For instance, pitches in the lower register, especially the infrequently
used pedal tones of the Bl> division that are accessed from Ff2 down (shown as
unstemmed quarter notes in Example 10-4),* are hard to control because the em­
bouchure needs to be very loose to play them. These pitches are most effective
when sustained or used in slow-moving passages; they should be avoided in
fast passages because they speak more slowly. In addition, it is taxing to play in
the higher register all the time, so periodic rests should be written into the part
if the high register is used continuously.
The rest of the range can be played with agility, but because the horn player
must hear each note mentally and then find it with the embouchure, he or she
will experience difficulty in executing wide leaps or excessively fast and jagged
runs.
e x a m p le

1 0 - 5 . Registral Characteristics: Valve Horn in F (Written Pitches)

Today, of the four horns of the orchestral section, Horns 1 and 3 are assigned
the higher parts and Horns 2 and 4 the lower parts. This pairing has a historical
origin: when four horns were first introduced into the orchestra, Horns 1 and 2
(a high and a low horn, respectively) were in a different key from Horns 3 and 4
(another high and low horn). The tradition of scoring for two separate pairings
of high and low horns has endured, even though most performers today play
the modem (chromatic) horn and therefore play in the same transposition. The
appearance of the four horns in the score reflects this tradition:
e x a m p le

10 - 6 . Layout of Modem Horn Section on a Score Page
b.

1
3 F Hn.

U 7

3

In Example 10-6a, notice that Horns 1 and 2, a "high" and a "low" horn, share
the same staff; the same goes for Horns 3 and 4. Notice also that the second and
third horn parts interlock. When only three horn parts are written, as in
Example 10-6b, Horn 3 (traditionally a high horn) is usually placed above Horn
2. In some modem scores composers have switched this arrangement around
and have written both high horns (Horns 1 and 3) on one staff and both low
horns (Homs 2 and 4) on another directly below.

*Pedal tones of the F division are not used.

I n d i v id u a l B r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

Old and New Notation
In all newly published scores and new editions of older scores, the F hom
part always transposes down a perfect 5th, whether it is notated in the treble clef
or, less frequently, the bass clef. In many nineteenth-century scores, however,
you may encounter lower hom parts that transpose up a perfect 4th; these parts
will always be written in the bass clef (in these scores all parts notated in the tre­
ble clef transpose a perfect 5th down). The difference between the old and new
transpositions for hom parts written in the bass clef, therefore, is as follows:
exam ple

Ю-7. Old versus New Transpositions

It is important to be aware of this discrepancy; you may find some hom players
accustomed to the old notation who will ask with which method you have no­
tated their parts.
Old notation

Representative Hom Passages
Here are several passages that show the various uses of the hom, whether as a
solo instrument or in parts for multiple homs.

Solo Passages
e x a m p l e i o-a. Brahms, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 30-38

CD-3/TR. 4 3
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Piu Andante
CHn.

f sem pre e passionato
e x a m p l e i o-9. Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, third movement, mm. 132-153

Allegro

CD-3/TR. 4 3
INDEX 2 / 0 : 4 4

317

3 18

th e st u d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p le i o - 1 o. R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm . 6 -1 2

CD-3/TR. 44
INDEX 1 /0:00

FHn.

CD-3/TR. 44
IN D E X 2 /0:21

ex a m p le

ю - n . Ravel, Pavane pour une infante defunte, mm. 1-11

Andante
2GHn.

Multiple Homs in Unison
CD-3/TR. 45
INDEX 1 /0:00

exam p le

Ю - 1 2 . R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 530-540

531

m olto espr.

4EHn.

J f rnolto espr.

CD-3fTR. 45
INDEX2 /0:32

example

Ш

1 0 - 1 3 . Mahler, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 345-356

additional p a s s a g e s

FOR STUDY

Brahms, Symphony No. 4, first movement, mm. 1-4
Dvorak, Symphony No. 5, fourth movement, mm. 132-136
Mahler, Symphony No. 3, first movement, beginning (all eight horns in
unison)

in d iv id u a l

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

Multiple Horns in Harmony
e x a m p l e

10-14. Handel, Judas Maccabaeus, "See the Conquering Hero," mm.

CD-3/TR. 46

9-16
GHn.

Г J J

I
—

e x a m p l e ю - i s . Weber, Der Freischiitz, Overture, m m . 10-25

]0 Andante

CD-3/TR. 4 7

3 19

320

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

CD-3/TR. 4 8

e x a m p l e Ю - 16 . Humperdinck, Hansel und Gretel, Overture, mm. 1 - 8

fluhlge, nicfat zu langsame Bewegung ( J = 69)

p> j

r

V

r

r a

J

(

*

T
t>r

j

i

г

=H = f 4

r

Ш ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
Franck, Symphony in D minor, second movement, mm. 62-70
Liszt, Les Prfludes, mm. 69-73
Mahler, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 32-36
Mendelssohn, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Nocturne, mm. 72-80
Wagner, Tannhauser, Act I, scene 3, mm. 1-38

Articulation and Tonguing
As on any other wind instrument, all notes within the same slur will be auto­
matically performed in one breath. Two kinds of single tonguing are available to
the horn player:
1. regular, staccato, or hard tonguing using the syllable "tuh";
CD-3/TR - 4 9

exam ple

1 0 - 1 7 . Wagner, Siegfried, Act I, scene 2, mm. 1-14

Lebhaft
FHn.

in d i v i d u a l

B r a s s in s t r u m e n t s

2. soft or legato tonguing using the syllable "duh."
exam ple

ю -le. Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 8-16

C D -3/ T R . 5 0

Andante

Double and triple tonguing are also possible on the horn. The following pas­
sage, because of its speed, would probably be double tongued:
e x a m p l e

Ю -19.

Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, fifth movement, mm.

C D -3/T R . 5 1

119-131
Allegro

128

The second of these two examples of triple tonguing is a rather simple in­
stance of repeated notes played softly:
e x a m p l e

i о-го. R. Strauss, Don Juan, mm. 501-505

Allegro

4 E Hn.

C D -3/T R. 5 2
IND EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

321

322

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -3/T R. 5 2
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 7

exam ple

182

i о-2 1 . Scriabin, Роет of Ecstasy, mm. 182-183
Allegro

4 Hn.

Muted and Stopped Horn
CD-ROM

C D -3
MUTED HORN

Muted Horn
Con sordino (It.)
When the words con sordino appear in a part, a player usually puts a nontransposing mute into the bell. As discussed in the previous chapter, this mute
changes the tone color of the instrument but does not change the pitch. Here is a
famous passage for muted horns:

C D -3/T R. 5 3

exam ple

Ю-22 . Debussy, Prelude a "L'apres-midi d'un faune," mm. 106-109

At the point where the mute is to be removed the term senza sordino must appear in
the score.
CD-ROM

Stopped Hom

C D -3
H A N D -S T O P P E D
HORN

Chiuso (It.); bouchi (Fr.); gestapft (Ger.)

In their respective languages, the words chiuso, bouche, and gestopft all mean
"stopped." The player "stops" (or mutes) the horn's tone by inserting the right
hand as far as possible into the bell to the throat of the hom, thereby blocking
much of the tone. This results in a soft, smooth, but somewhat nasal sound. The
stopped hom can be used for single notes or entire passages. In the following
excerpt, from Rimsky-Korsakov7s Capriccio espagnol, the performer is directed to
play the first half of the passage open and the second half stopped:
C D -3/T R . 5 4

exam ple

i 0-23.

Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, second movement, mm.

45-48
о

о о о о

Hn. solo

The stopped hom is also effective when performing

.

I n d i v id u a l b r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

When a player sees the indication for stopped horn in the score, he or she
may elect to use a mute rather than the hand, although the resulting sound
would certainly be different. But when a fast switch from open horn to muted
horn is required, as in Example 10-24, the hand must be used.
exam ple

1 0 - 2 4 . Mahler, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 76-79

C D -3/ T R . 5 5

Wieder lebhaft

In the score the term open must appear when the player is to discontinue stopping
the horn.

Special Effects
Trills and Tremolos
Horn trills are produced either with the valve or by manipulating the lips.
These trills sound a bit heavy and sluggish, and can have a comical or sardonic
effect. The most successful trills involve the major or minor 2nd above or below
the main pitch, as in the following two examples:
exam ple

1 o -2 5 . R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 641-643

C D -3/T R . 5 6
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Sehr lebhaft

e xam p le

1 o-26. R. Strauss, Salome, at [360l

Fast

C D -3/TR. 5 6
IN D E X 2 / 0 : 1 3

323

324

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Tremolos of intervals larger than 2nds are also possible to play, but are ex­
tremely difficult and therefore risky in performance.
H

A D D ITIO N A L P ASSA G E S FOR S TU D Y

Chabrier, Espaiia, mm. 464-468
Falla, El Amor brujo, "Ritual Fire Dance," mm. 249-254
Mahler, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 13-15
Glissandos
Glissandos are infrequently given to the hom, but when employed, sound
best going up, in loud passages, and in the upper range where the partials are
closest together. Here are two examples of glissandi; the first, because of its
speed, is performed as a glissando even though it is notated as an arpeggio; the
second, particularly because it descends, usually has to be faked because it is al­
most impossible to execute. It comes off in performance because the entire or­
chestra is performing the same glissando.

CD-3/TR. 57
INDEX 1 /0:00

e x a m p le

1 0 - 2 7 . R. Strauss, Der Rosenkavalier, Introduction, mm. 30-31

C D -3/T R . 5 7
IN D E X 2 / 0 : 1 5

e x a m p le

10 - 28 . Barber, Symphony No. 1, mm. 135-136

FHn.

' ' A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E FOR S TU D Y

Stravinsky, Le Sucre du printemps, Part П, "Danse sacrale," m m . 152-156
Cuivre (F r .)
Cuivre ("brassy"), another popular effect, calls for a brassier, harsher sound,
obtained by increased lip tension, more breath, and a sharper attack, all of
which cause the metal of the instrument to vibrate.
C D -3/T R. 5 8

e x a m p le

2

i o - 2 9 . Bizet, L'Arlesienne Suite No. 1, "Carillon," m m . 1-4

Allegretto

Сигпгё

4 £ Hn.

ff

I n d i v i d u a l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

Bells Up
Pavilions en Vair (Fr.); Schalltrichter auf (Ger.)

Some composers ask that a passage be played "bells up" or "bells in the air."
To create this effect, the horn player removes the right hand from the bell and
uses it to turn the bell upward so that the opening faces the audience. This effect
often is used for very loud and boisterous passages.
e x a m p le

1 0 -3 0 .

Mahler, Symphony No. 4 , third movement, mm. 3 1 9 - 3 2 6

Pesante

319

Schalltrichter auf

F H ds.

Trum pet
Tromba, (I t.); Trompette (Fr .);
Trompete (G er.)

The trumpet, the soprano mem­
ber of the brass family, is the
most agile of the brass instru­
ments. It is often called on to
perform not only very high pas­
sages, both loudly and softly,
but also passages that exploit its
entire range at various dynamic
levels. This instrument, played
in both fast passages and slow
ones, has been favored by com­
posers to create an aura of antic­
ipation or excitement.

3

C D -3/ T R . 5 9

325

326

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

The Natural Trumpet
At first glance, it would seem that the history of the trumpet and trumpet
playing closely parallels that of the horn. Like the horn, the early trumpet was
valveless, resembling the bugles we know today. Its fundamental pitch was
governed by the length of its tube. Its tone was brilliant. The Baroque period
saw an extraordinary outburst of trumpet virtuosity—what we have come to
call the art of clarino playing. The demands made on the trumpet at that time
rivaled those for the oboe and violin. Here is a typical clarino part by Johann
Sebastian Bach:
C D -3/TR. 6 0

e x a m p l e 1 0 - 3 1 . Bach, Cantata No. 51, "Jauchzet Gott in alien Landen/' last
movement, "Alleluja," mm. 5-16

With the rise of the homophonic style in the mid-eighteenth century, intri­
cate, showy clarino playing virtually disappeared. The diatonic melodies
required by the new style, which were normally written as the top voice,
would sound extremely piercing and obtrusive on the trumpet. Composers in­
stead relegated this instrument to an accompanimental role, holding long tonic
or dominant pedal tones or playing in chordal passages during tutti sections.
C D -3/TR. 6 1

exam p le

1 0 -3 2 .

mm. 249-268
Allegro

Haydn, Symphony No. 94 ("Surprise"), fourth movement,

I n d i v id u a l b r a s s In s t r u m e n t s
exam ple

10- 33 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 3 ("Eroica"), first movement, mm.

C D -3/T R . 6 2

37-45
37.

Allegro
a2

EtTpt

exam p le

1 0-34. Mozart, Piano Concerto K. 503, third movement, mm. 24—32

This practice continued into the nineteenth century, until the advent of the
valve trumpet. In Classical-period concertos, however, such as those written by
Haydn and Hummel, the trumpet's true potential continued to be exploited.

Range
The range of the natural trumpet is governed by constraints similar to those
on the natural horn. Whereas Baroque composers drew on pitches up to the six­
teenth partial of the harmonic series, after clarino playing disappeared Classical
composers seldom wrote for higher than the twelfth partial. For all practical
purposes, the first two partials were unplayable on all but the F trumpet (see
transposition chart below), and even on that instrument the pitches were quite
uncertain. Thus, the Classical composer had the following limited choices of
pitches:
e x a m p l e i 0 - 3 5 . Available Pitches on the Trumpet during the Classical Period

The seventh partial was always very flat and had to be adjusted by the em­
bouchure. The eleventh partial, which on a С instrument actually lies between
Bi and F#, had to be corrected to an even greater extent, through the player's skill
in manipulating the embouchure (the "right hand in the bell" adjustment can­
not be accomplished on the trumpet).

Transpositions
The С trumpet is nontransposing and sounds as written. The crooks used to
transpose the natural trumpet to different keys did not carry alto-basso designa­
tions; of the seven most popular, four transpose up and three transpose down:

C D -3/T R . 6 3

327

328

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Trumpet in

Transposing (sounding) up:

Transposing (sounding) down:

F
E
El>
D
С
В
Bt
A

Sounds
a perfect 4th up
a major 3rd up
a minor 3rd up
a major 2nd up
sounds as written
a minor 2nd down
a major 2nd down
a minor 3rd down

As far as we know, these were the only trumpet crooks in use. Some Classical
works call for trumpet in G and in At, as well as other keys, but for these trans­
positions the most popular crooks were used, with adjustments made by the
player.
Examples 10-32, 10-33, and 10-34 (pp. 326-327) illustrate the limitations
placed on the trumpet during the Classical period by requirements of orches­
tral balance. Sometimes strange voice leading resulted from the unavailability
of certain notes; for instance, in the following example a most "unclassical"
leap of a major 9th in the second trumpet part results because the С trumpet
could not play or double any other note in the D minor chord heard in mea­
sures 221-222:
C D -3/T R . 6 4

e x a m p l e i o - 3 6 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, fifth movement, mm. 219-223
219

2 СTpt.

At the end of the Classical period Beethoven introduced a more idiomatic
style in trumpet parts, such as the thrilling passages from his Symphony No. 5
and the stunning fanfare from the Leonore Overture No. 3:
C D -3/T R . 6 5
IND EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

exam ple

i o-37. Beethoven, Symphony No. 5, second movement, mm. 147-158

CTpt.

C D -3/T R . 6 5
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 3 7

exam p le

1 0 - 3 8 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 5, fourth movement, mm. 1-6

Allegro
CTpt.

C D -3/ T R . 6 5
IN D EX 3 / 0 : 5 9

exam ple

295

Ю -39 . Beethoven, Leonore Overture No. 3, mm. 295-300

Freely

In d i v i d u a l b r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

It is interesting to note that the natural horn was used in the Classical and
early Romantic orchestra much more frequently than the natural trumpet, prob­
ably due to the horn's less piercing tone quality, even in its higher registers.
This was also partly true with the cornet, which, as we shall see shortly, was
much mellower in sound because of the size of its bore, the cornet being a de­
scendant of the posthom family rather than the trumpet family. In his
Symphonic fantastique Berlioz assigns rather uninspiring parts to the two trum­
pets and more interesting parts to the two cornets, which at that time had valves
and were fully chromatic.
Two later examples for the natural trumpet are the following:
e x a m p l e 1 0 - 4 0 . Tchaikovsky, Capricdo italien, m m . 1-7

j

C D -3/T R. 6 6
IN D EX 1 I 0 : 0 0

Andante un poco rubato J) = 132

2 E T p t.

e x a m p l e i o -4i. Mendelssohn, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, "Wedding
March," m m . 1-5

Allegro vivace

■cw-

* д ] и

* j± iU

The Valve Trumpet
The earliest valve trumpets made their appearance around the middle of the
nineteenth century. They were made from the natural F trumpets, to which
three valves had been added. Their range extended from the third to the twelfth
harmonic, and all chromatic tones in between.
example
W ritten

i o - 4 2 . Range
Sounding

The instrument, with its large and noble sound, tends to dominate the or­
chestra. Melodies written for it by Mahler, Bruckner, Richard Strauss, and oth­
ers (see Examples 10-43 and 10-44) sound most impressive when played on this
trumpet. Yet because its tremendous carrying power overshadows the other in­
struments of the brass section, it was dropped by most composers around the
turn of the twentieth century, who favored the more modem, smaller valve
trumpets in С and Bk

C D '3 / T R . 6 6
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 3 0

329

330

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -3/ T R . 6 7

C D -3/ T R . 6 8

e x a m p le

10 -4 3 .

Bruckner, Symphony No. 7, first movement, mm. 2 3 3 - 2 4 1

e x a m p l e 1 0 - 4 4 . Mahler, Symphony No. 2 ("Resurrection"), first movement,
mm. 192-197

Up until the middle of the nineteenth century, composers notated natural
trumpet parts in the keys of the crooks. Later in the nineteenth century it seems
that most players performed these parts on the valve trumpet in F. In his revi­
sion of Berlioz's Treatise on Instrumentation, Richard Strauss has suggested that
the best procedure to follow in writing for trumpet is to notate the part in С and
let the player make the correct transposition, on the F trumpet or on another ap­
propriate instrument. How much this practice was followed in the late nine­
teenth and early twentieth centuries is not known.

CD-ROM
CD-3
TRUMPET

The Modem Trumpet
As the demand for a higher tessitura increased and the preference for a more
brilliant tone and greater agility in playing the instrument grew, the smaller Bb
and С valve trumpets gradually became the standard instruments of the sym-

I n d i v i d u a l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

phony orchestra. Today, a variety of high trumpets are available (including the
D and piccolo Bl>), and they are often called on to perform Baroque music as well
as recent music written in a high tessitura.
Although the С trumpet does not need to be transposed, the Bt> trumpet (as
well as the less common D and piccolo Bl>trumpets) must be notated in the cor­
rect transposition. No matter what instrument you ask for in a score, the trum­
peter will choose the one most convenient for his or her use in a particular
work. Many professionals today own D trumpets and prefer to play certain
high passages on this smaller instrument. Most nonprofessional players, how­
ever, own only Bt trumpets.

Range and Registral Characteristics
EXAMPLE 1 0 - 4 5 . Range

С Trumpet*

Written

Sounding

Bl>Trumpet

'Many trumpeters are able to play higher than the range given here, but it is risky to write above C5.

The modem Bt and С trumpets are fitted with three piston valves. The С trum­
pet, the smaller of the two, is preferred by some composers because it has a
more brilliant, focused sound and produces the higher notes more easily. The Bl>
trumpet is a bit "fatter" and richer in sound and has a fine low register; it is
commonly used in bands and jazz groups as well as in the symphony orchestra.
At one time all Bt trumpets were equipped with a small slide that transformed
them into A instruments, but the slide proved to be so unreliable that it was
eventually discontinued.
The following chart shows the pitches that are easily available by depressing
each valve. Remember that depressing the first valve lowers the "open" pitch a
whole step; depressing the second valve lowers it a semitone, and depressing
the third valve lowers it a tone and a half. If more than one valve is depressed,
these actions are combined.
F in g e r in g

on the

Open

Second valve
depressed
First valve
depressed
Third valve
depressed, or
one and two

M o d ern С T rum pet

Second and
third valves
depressed
First and
third valves
depressed
All valves
depressed

331

332

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p l e

i o - 4 6 . Registral Characteristics for both С and Bl>Trumpets
Gear, bright, and
most articulate

Brilliant but strident

Rather dull

On the trumpet, a loud passage is much simpler to play than a very soft one,
particuarly in the high register. In the low register, a pianissimo is also hard to
control; therefore, loud notes, even those that are extremely loud, are safer to
write than soft ones. The middle register, from middle С to Bt5, is the most man­
ageable for all players, and in this range all dynamics can be played successfully
by professionals. However, nonprofessional trumpet players will have difficulty
controlling soft dynamics almost anywhere in the range.
The following melody encompasses the entire range of the trumpet and
shows twentieth-century writing characteristic of this instrument.
e x a m p l e

C D -3fTR. 6 9

i 0 -4 7 .

Copland, Outdoor Overture, mm. 16-31

Moderate

Ш

a d d it io n a l p a s s a g e s

fo r

s tu d y

Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, fifth movement, mm. 201-211
Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra, No. 2 ("Vergangenes"), mm. 129-131
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, second movement, mm. 113-116
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, last movement, mm. 2-11
Stravinsky, Renard, 4 mm. before [37] to [39]
Stravinsky, Le Rossignol (throughout)

Articulation and Tonguing
The trumpet is the fastest-speaking instrument in the brass choir. All slurred
notes are performed in one breath, and all separate notes are tongued. All kinds
of fast passages, both slurred and tongued, are possible; single, double, and

in d iv id u a l

B r a s s in s t r u m e n t s

triple tonguing are used constantly on this instrument. The following examples
illustrate both double and triple tonguing.
EXAMPLE 1 0 - 4 8 . Pucdni, La Boheme, Act П, opening (double tonguing on Л

only)

C D -3/ T R . 7 0
IN D E X 1 / 0 : 0 0

m arcatissim o
FT p t. 1 ,2 ,3

exam ple

К

i o -4 9 . Verdi, Aida, Act I, "Celesta Aida," mm. 1-13 (triple tonguing)

C D -3/ T R . 7 0
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 5

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Bruckner, Symphony No. 7, third movement, mm. 77-88
Dukas, L'Apprenti sorcier, mm. 606-615
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, Suite No. 2, mm. 10-15
Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espagnol, third movement, mm. 37-41
Rossini, William Tell, Overture, mm. 226-241
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 1-8
R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 544-564
Wagner, Tannhauser, Act П, scenes 3 and 4, mm. 72-75, mm. 204-210

Muted Trumpet
In orchestral literature muted passages are very common. The direction given in
the score for using a mute is usually con sordino, and for removing it senza sor­
dino. German composers of the later nineteenth century frequendy used the
words gestopft ("stopped") and offen ("open"), the latter indicating to remove

CD-ROM
CD-3
MUTED
TRUMPET

333

334

T H E STU D Y O F O R CH ESTRA TIO N

the mute. In recently composed scores one sees the English word open as often
as settza sordino.
When muting is called for, the orchestral trumpet player will use a straight
mute unless another mute is specified in the score. Unlike the straight mute for
hom, that for the trumpet does not affect transposition and therefore does not
need a mechanism within it to correct the pitch; but like the straight mute for
horn, the trumpet mute softens the sound and changes the tone color of the
instrument.
Stopping the sound with the hand is impossible on the trumpet. However,
the hand can be used to hold certain mutes, such as the plunger, which greatly
softens the instrument, or the harmon mute, which produces the jazzy "wa-wa"
effect when the stem is moved into and out of the bell.
The other trumpet mutes pictured in Chapter 9, such as the bucket mute,
solotone mute, cup mute, and whispa mute have been used primarily by dance
and theater orchestras, but have found their way into the symphonic literature
in recent decades. Many trumpet players have also invented their own mutes,
producing ever new sounds. In addition to using mutes, orchestral trumpet
players may be asked to play "into the hat" or "into the stand," whereby they
will point the instrument into a plastic or felt hat held by the hand or play very
close to the stand.
Here are some representative orchestral passages for muted trumpet. The
first two examples use the straight mute and the third the harmon mute.
Example 10-50 is in two parts: the trumpets first play without mutes and then
with mutes a half step lower:
C D -3/T R . 7 1

exam ple

1 0 - 5 0 . Mahler, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 623-625 and

mm. 592-594

0
623

1.2
FTpt.

Allegro

■ГПЯЗ
JXT

m

щ

zu 2
3.4

m
Allegro

ш

Ш

m

m

КР-Ф-Ф'Ф

In d i v i d u a l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

e x a m p l e

1 0 - 5 1 . Debussy, Nocturnes, "Fetes," mm. 124-131

C O -3/ TR . 7 2

Moderate

e x a m p le

1 0 - 5 2 . Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue, m m . 16-19
Jazzy
Wa wa (harmon) mute

S

A D D ITIO N A L PASSAG ES FOR S TU D Y

Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, second movement, mm. 90-101
Stravinsky, Petrushka, Second Tableau, mm. 33-39

Special Effects
Trills
Most trills on the trumpet are executed by manipulating the valves; in the
high register some trills can be played by moving the Ups. Trills that involve
changing only one valve are very playable; those that involve changing two
valves are more awkward; and those that involve changing all three valves, par­
ticularly those given below (see the fingerings below the staff), are very difficult
and should be avoided, if possible.

Glissandos
The trumpet is sometimes asked to play glissando. This is effective only
when performed in an upward direction and in the uppermost register, where

C D -3/T R . 7 3

335

336

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

the partials are dose together. Players can also bend a pitch downward a quar­
ter tone or half step, an effect used only by more recent composers.
C D -3/ T R . 7 4

e x a m p le

1 0 -54. Upward Glissandos and Bending Pitches Downward

Auxiliary Trumpets
The D trumpet, which is more and more frequently used in the symphony or­
chestra, is a small, brilliant-sounding instrument with a very piercing, bright
tone. This instrument's range and playing techniques are very similar to those
of the С and Bl> trumpets. Its low register (below middle C) is not very manage­
able; but one should keep in mind that the D trumpet, as well as the lesserknown El> trumpet, is usually used in its higher register.
Today, Baroque clarino parts are performed on D and El> trumpets, or on the
Bt piccolo trumpet, which transposes up a minor 7th and has an effective range
from Bl>3 to A5.
e x a m p le

1 0-55. Ranges of the D, El>. and Bl> Piccolo Trumpets
Written

^

л

—

Sounding

^^

D Trumpet

El>Trumpet

Written

Sounding

Written

Sounding

Ф

Bt Piccolo Trumpet

Here are some passages for these instruments.
C D -3/T R . 7 5
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

e x a m p le

i o - 5 6 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I,"Jeux des cites rivales,"

mm. 38-42
ten.
DTpt.

I n d i v id u a l b r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s
exam p le

1 0- 57 . Bach, Christmas Oratorio, Introduction to Final Chorus (No. 64,

"Chorale")

CD-3/TR. 7 5
INDEX 2 I 0:2.0

Allegro

C D -3/T R . 7 5
IN D EX 3 I 0 : 4 9

CORNET
я к м н м п н м я ш

Since its invention in the early nineteenth century the cornet has had valves, a fact
that invited composers to write for it before the valve trumpet became readily ac­
cepted. Even though many orchestral composers since Berlioz have used the cor­
net in their scores, this instrument has never become a regular member of the
symphony orchestra, and instead was almost completely supplanted by the valve
trumpet, with its greater brilliance of tone and ability to match the cornet in versa­
tility. The comet has been a regular member of the wind ensemble, however, and
has been used ubiquitously in many theater orchestras, especially in Europe. It is
ideal for playing music written for military functions, and in a great deal of nine­
teenth- and twentieth-century scores has been assigned folklike tunes.
The comet looks like a modem trumpet and is played with a cup mouthpiece.
Its transposition has been standardized to Bt, with the same range as the Bl>trum­
pet (see p. 331). The instrument has as much agility as the trumpet and is very se­
cure in pitch. Since its bore is two-thirds conical and one-third cylindrical, its tone
is more mellow, sounding more like a cross between a hom and a trumpet.
Here are two wonderful comet passages from the orchestral literature.
e x a m p l e i 0 - 5 9 . Tchaikovsky, Capriccio italien, m m . 232-240

Allegro

233

C D -3/TR. 7 6

337

338

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -3/T R . 7 7

exam p le

1 0-60 . Stravinsky, Petrushka, Second Tableau, "Ballerina's Dance,"

mm. 1-29
j

Allegro ( J =116)

& С О Г .1

Military Dr.

f t Cor. 1
Military Dr.

ft Cor. 1
Military Dr.

BtCor. 1
Military Dr.

B^Cor. 1
Military Dr.

f t ADDITIONAL p a s s a g e s FOR STUDY

Berlioz, Symphonie fantastique, fourth movement, mm. 62-69
Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kije, first movement, mm. 1-5

In d i v i d u a l b r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

o t h e r Me m b e r s
T r u m p e t F a m il y

o f the

Bass Trumpet
The bass trumpet is really a trombone with valves. It is played usually by trom­
bone players, who use a trombone mouthpiece. The bass trumpet comes in C,
Bl>, D, or Ek The С instrument sounds an octave lower than written; the Bt a
major 9th lower than written, the D a minor 7th lower than written; and the Et a
major 6th lower than written.
exam ple

i o - 6 i . Ranges of the C, Bl>, Ek and D Bass Trumpets
Written

Sounding

Written

Sounding

C Bass Trumpet

Bl>Bass Trumpet

El>Bass Trumpet

D Bass Trumpet

Here are two examples of bass trumpet writing.
exam ple

i o-62 . Wagner, Die Walkure, Act Ш, mm. 12-18

Allegro

C D -3/T R . 7 8
IND EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

DBs. Tpt.

e x a m p l e 1 o -6 3 . Wagner, Die Walkure, Act Ш, Wotan's aria "Derm Einer nur
freie die Braut," mm. 1-4

Andante

C D -3/T R. 7 6
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 0

339

340

th e

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Flugelhom
The flugelhom is a member of the bugle and comet family. It is infrequently
used in the symphony orchestra but quite often in bands, wind ensembles, and
jazz ensembles. The name comes from Fliigelmann ("wing man"), the designa­
tion of the person who marched in the front right-hand comer of the German
military band formation. The first flugelhoms, manufactured in Austria be­
tween 1820 and 1830, retain the wide conical bore and medium-sized bell of
their antecedent, the keyed bugle. Over time manufacturers have narrowed the
bore so that now the only difference between a comet and a flugelhom is the
latter's larger bell.
The most commonly used flugelhom today is in Bl>, although there used to
be flugelhoms in Et, F, and C. The modem instrument has three valves and is
played with a funnel-shaped mouthpiece, which differs from that of the comet
in its greater width and depth.
The flugelhom shares the range as well as transposition of the comet. It also
sounds a major 2nd lower than written.
example

1 0-64. Range

Written

Sounding

Its very mellow, lush sound approaches that of the hom even more than the cor­
net's. In the early twentieth century the flugelhom at times may have performed
the high hom solo in the "Quoniam" from Bach's В-minor Mass.
Although the flugelhom is rarely found today in the symphony orchestra,
Stravinsky wrote for it in a now-famous passage from Threni.
CO -3/ TR . 7 9

example

i o -6S . Stravinsky, Threni, m m . 89-99

TR O M BO N E
Posaune (G e r .)
The trombone is an extremely versatile orchestral instrument. It can be used for
solos as well as for providing a warm harmonic background. It also works well
as a contrapuntal partner with other trombones or with instruments of other or­
chestral sections, and is an effective doubler, with its mellow tone and large
dynamic range. All articulations, including wide skips, sound effective on the
trombone.

INDIVIDUAL B R A S S IN STRU M EN TS
t h e tr o m b o n e

341

F a m il y

alto trombone

Л
V.

tenor trombone

ч

> 4
tenor trombone
with F attachment

J O H N M A R C E LLU S , TR O M B O N E
bass trombone with
F attachment

bass trombone with F
and E attachments

As its name implies, the trombone is actually a big trumpet. One of its pre­
decessors may have been the bass trumpet, whose unwieldy length of tubing
was either wound in coils or partly cut out. The latter solution was the source of
the trombone, whose tube was cut into two U-shaped pieces, one of which
slides into the other. This mechanism permits the player to change pitches and
make fine timing adjustments by lengthening or shortening the outer tube,
called the slide, with the arm.
The tube of the trombone is cylindrical for about two-thirds of its length and
becomes conical toward the bell. This cone is smaller in alto and tenor trom­
bones and flares out much more in bass trombones, which facilitates the playing
of lower partials.
Three different trombones—the tenor, bass, and alto—are used in the or­
chestra today; all are nontransposing instruments. Their total range provides
the composer or orchestrator with a great compass of pitches from which to
choose. Many more types of trombones, some of which transpose, have been in­
vented, and some of these are still employed in ensembles such as the British
brass band, which also uses different types of transposing tubas.
For about the past one hundred years the symphony orchestra's trombone
section has consisted of three trombones: two tenors and one bass. Parts that
were written for the alto trombone in the nineteenth century have been played
by the tenor trombone throughout most of the twentieth century; but lately alto
trombones are making a comeback and are reclaiming some of the parts origi­
nally written for them.

342

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

C D -R O M
C D -3
TR O M B O N E

Tenor Trombone
Of the three versions of the trombone, the tenor is the most common in modem
symphony orchestras. Tenor trombone parts, like those for bass trombone (dis­
cussed below), are notated in the bass clef up to about G4, where they switch to
the tenor clef to prevent the use of ledger lines.

Range and Registral Characteristics
e x a m p le

10 - 66. Range

The normal range of the tenor trombone extends from E2 to B4. The black noteheads in Example 10-66 indicate additional pitches that professionals usually
can play, albeit with difficulty.
e x a m p l e

Ю - 6 7 . Registral Characteristics
Firm and powerful

very intense

Playing Positions
Each of the seven different playing positions of the slide on the tenor trom­
bone, from Bt in first position down to E^ in seventh position, lowers the pitch
one half step from the previous position. In seventh position the slide is all the
way out.
exam ple

positions:

1 о - в е . The Seven Playing Positions on the Trombone

I

The fundamental of each position is called a pedal tone. They are seldom
called for in orchestral music, but do occur in literature for solo tenor trombone.
Only the fundamentals of the first three positions are good; the others are quite
difficult to control. Thus, for all practical purposes the harmonic series of each
position begins on the second partial, since from there on up the series all tones
are easy to produce.
Many pitches can be produced in more than one position—for instance, D4
can be played in the fourth and seventh positions—but all notes below Al>3 are
available in only one position. Because of this, the following passage would be

INDIVIDUAL B R A S S IN STR U M EN TS

difficult in a fast tempo, especially for nonprofessionals, as it continually alter­
nates between two extreme positions:
example

Ю - 6 9 . Difficult Position Changes

F&st
VII

I

VII

I

VII

I

VII

III

The F Trigger
The tenor trombone's range can be extended downward with a mechanism
called an F trigger or F attachment, a rotary valve manipulated by the left thumb
that activates extra tubing. This mechanism creates a double instrument (similar
in principle to the double horn) by making an F instrument out of a Bl>one. The
F trigger enables the tenor trombonist to play pedal tones down to C1.
Many tenor trombones made today have the same range as bass trombones
(see immediately below), because they have not only the F trigger and its extra
tubing that extends the range but also D and Gl> triggers that make it easier to
play in certain keys. However, because the tenor trombone is not constructed
like the bass trombone, it sounds less sonorous in the lower register.

Bass Trombone
The bass trombone is usually the third of the three trombones employed in the
standard symphony orchestra. It has a noticeably different timbre from the
tenor trombone, caused by its larger bore and bell and use of a larger mouth­
piece.

Range and Registral Characteristics
Like the tenor trombone, the bass trombone is pitched in Bk The practical
limits of the bass trombone's range are:
example

1 0 - 7 0 . Range

exam ple i o-7 1 . Registral Characteristics
Very powerful

Heavy and
quite strong

|-----------------г— i
Deep and solid

Triggers
The bass trombone always has an F trigger, which, like that for the tenor
trombone, gives it the ability to extend its range down to the pedal tone C1. In

343

344

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Example 10-70 we give a Bil2 in parentheses, a pitch that cannot be played on the
bass trombone unless it has a Gl> trigger (or the player fakes the note). Most new
bass trombones have this attachment. The combination of Gb and F triggers
transforms the bass trombone into a triple instrument. The very newest bass
trombones also have a D—and even E*—attachment, permitting an even greater
variety of keys and making particular glissandi that much easier to play.
Playing Positions
The six positions of the bass trombone with F trigger are given in Example
10-72. The notes given for each position represent its second partial; each posi­
tion is able to extend upward to the tenth or twelfth partial.
example i o-7 2 . Playing Positions on the Bass Trombone

positions:

I

I!

Ill

IV

VI

VII

(й or E
trigger

I

Notice that there is no fifth position on the bass trombone. Because of the length
of the Bt tenor trombone slide, which is also used on the bass trombone, the bass
trombone player must extend each position slightly to compensate for the larger
instrument. (The positions on the tenor trombone are approximately three to
three and a half inches apart; on the bass trombone with F attachment they are
four to five inches apart.) Therefore, because of the larger distance between po­
sitions, Position V is eliminated, resulting in six positions: I, П, Ш, IV, VI, and
VO. To play Bl»1 the player simply releases the F trigger.
Pedal tones are easier to produce on the bass trombone than on the tenor.
Many composers from the time of Wagner onward—and even before that,
Berlioz—have used them. They have a very full sound with great carrying
power, but you must be careful not to write them into passages that are too
rapid, since the technique of producing these notes is quite tricky. Here are the
practical pedal tones for the bass trombone:
exam ple

Ю -73. Pedal Tones on the Bass Trombone

Alto Trombone
The alto trombone was used extensively throughout the nineteenth century, es­
pecially by German and Italian composers. During the eighteenth century it was
used as a solo instrument. Although the alto trombone fell into disuse toward
the end of the nineteenth century, many first trombonists are once again taking
up this instrument to play high-tessitura parts as well as those originally written
for it.
’If the E attachment is not already provided on the instrument a player can pull out the F
trigger to turn it into an E trigger.

in d i v i d u a l

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

Range and Registral Characteristics
The alto trombone is pitched in Ek Parts for it are generally notated in the
alto clef.
EXAMPLE 1 0 - 7 4 . Range

~1>£L(♦)

The alto trombone has a narrower bore than its two cousins, producing high
notes that are pure and mellow, yet brilliant and not so piercing as those of the
tenor trombone. The notes from El3 downward are weak and sound quite poor;
the fundamental or pedal tones are not really feasible on this instrument.
Therefore, the first playable note of each series are the second partials (see
Example 10-75).

Positions
The seven positions of the alto trombone are given in Example 10-75. The
notes for each position represent its second partial; each position is able to ex­
tend upward to the tenth or twelfth partial.
exam p le

positions:

I

10-75. Playing Positions on the Alto Trombone

II

III

IV

V

VI

VII

Articulation and Tonguing
Although single, double, and triple tonguings are possible on the trombone, fast
tonguings are a little more difficult than on the trumpet because of the trom­
bone's larger mouthpiece. In addition, the larger size of the instrument makes
articulation in the extreme low register a bit sluggish and heavy.
A perfect legato can be obtained only between two notes in the same har­
monic series, but professional trombonists have perfected their coordination of
soft tonguing and change of position to give an almost perfect impression of
legato playing. In the following example, which Was orchestrated by Siissmayr,
a pupil of Mozart, after his master's untimely death, the beautiful legato solo of
the 'Tuba mirum" is assigned to the trombone.
exam ple

Ю-76. Mozart, Requiem, 'Tuba mirum," mm. 1-18

C D -3/T R . 8 0

Andante
-

Шищш m

i

,i

i

——

1

i ,

i

i

u

f

^

i

p —— ■

j

Гг r

i

345

in d i v i d u a l

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s

Muted Trombone
We introduced several different kinds of trombone mutes in Chapter 9 (pp.
307-311). Like horn and trumpet mutes, those for the trombone change the in­
strument's tone color and enable the trombonist to play very softly.
The following two passages from twentieth-century literature require trom­
bone mutes. In the Berg example the trombones are doubled by cellos and dou­
ble basses playing col legno (not heard on the recording).
exam p le

1 0-80 . Sessions, Symphony No. 2, fourth movement, mm. 6 8 - 7 0

CD-ROM
CD-3
MUTED
TROMBONE

C D -3/T R . 8 4
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Allegro
con sordini

68

p d im

Trb.

j>p

.

Efc

m

p dim .
exam p le

mm

PP

10 -8 I. Berg Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 45-51

C D -3/T R. 8 4
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 8

—1

Slowly

Glissandos
The slide glissando on the trombone is the most natural to play, since the trom­
bonist can quickly move the slide between two or more notes, in the manner of
a string player's glissando using one finger on one string. But no slide glissando
can be larger than a tritone, the interval that encompasses the same partial in all
positions. In addition to the slide glissando there is a lip glissando, as well as a
combination slide and lip glissando.
The following three passages illustrate glissando on the trombone. The glis­
sando is less distinct in the second example, but Britten nevertheless gives a
very jazzy feeling to the passage. The Bartok example shows a type of glissando
similar to that executed by the horn over the harmonic series. Because this type
of glissando has not been used too often it sounds quite effective.
exam p le

1 o-82 . Khachaturian, Gayne Ballet, Suite No. 1, "Sabre Dance," mm.

10-11

Trb.

/

C D -3/T R. 8 5
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

347

348

TH E ST U D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

C D -3/T R . 8 5
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 4

e x a m p le

1 0 - 8 3 . Britten, The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, Fugue, a t [L)

*® means to be played quasi glissando

C D -3/T R. 8 6

exam ple

1 0 - 8 4 . Bartok, Violin Concerto No. 2, third movement, mm. 593-600

INDIVIDUAL B R A S S IN STR U M EN TS

O t h e r Me m b e r s o f t h e
T r o m b o n e F a m il y
Contrabass Trombone
Wagner, Strauss, and Schoenberg are among the few composers who have
called for the contrabass trombone, pitched in Bt, an octave below the tenor
trombone. Verdi, especially in Falstaff, also wrote parts for it; however, in Italy
the contrabass trombone was a valved instrument. Since the contrabass trom­
bone taxes the performer so greatly, we advise not to write for this instrument;
parts originally written for it are now played on the tuba.

Valve Trombone
This instrument uses valves rather than a slide to produce different pitches. It
has made very little impact on the orchestra, but is employed with some success
in bands. The valve trombone is actually a large trumpet, but what it might offer
in facility and agility it loses in character; it also presents severe difficulties in
intonation. We urge not to write for this instrument either, since very few or­
chestral musicians own one.

T uba

CD-ROM
CD-3
TUBA

The tuba is the true bass of the brass choir and therefore shares the same status
as the double bass and contrabassoon. It has been used successfully as a solo or­
chestral voice and in combination with other instruments. The tuba blends well
with the three trombones of the brass section, providing an excellent bass for
them. It also mixes beautifully with the trumpets, as well as with the horns.
Today's orchestra generally employs one tuba player. Many composers,
however, have written scores with two tuba parts (Stravinsky, Schoenberg, and
T H E T U B A FA M ILY

Euphonium

F tuba

CH ERR Y BEAUREGARD, F TU B A

CCtuba

BBkuba

349

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Harris, among others), primarily to strengthen the bass of an oversized horn
and trumpet section, but also to prevent a single tuba player from becoming
overtaxed. The first player can be assigned the higher tessitura and the second
the lower tessitura.
The tuba as we know it today was not introduced into the symphony or­
chestra until around 1875, when Richard Wagner conceived of and wrote for the
instrument. The Wagner tuba was shaped like a horn and had a sound very
much like that instrument but in a much lower range; it therefore provided bass
support for the trumpets and trombones. This instrument replaced the ophicleide (see below), which had been used since the beginning of the nineteenth
century.
Wagner wrote for a whole family of tubas in his Ring cycle: tenor tubas in Bt
and El> and bass tubas in F and BBl> (pronounced "double В-flat/' an octave
below the Bl>tenor tuba). These instruments were actually extensions of the horn
family and were usually played by horn players. Not many composers other
than Wagner, his contemporary Bruckner, and his disciple Richard Strauss
adopted the family of Wagner tubas, and gradually the bass tuba in F became
the standard orchestral instrument.
Today's performer can choose from five or six tubas, which range from the
Bl> tenor tuba through the F, El>, and С bass tubas to the CC and BBl> contrabass
tubas/ In contrast to the Wagner tubas, all modern tubas are nontransposing;
the pitch designations in each of their names refer only to their range, funda­
mentals, and pedal tones. The С and BBt tubas are favored by symphonic tuba
players because the fingering is more comfortable on them and all pitches found
in the repertoire can be produced on them.
The instrument is constructed with a wide conical bore and a very wide bell;
it employs either a piston, or more commonly, a rotary valve system. The valve
system is of the same design as that for the horn and trumpet, with an added
fourth valve that lowers the fundamental a perfect 4th. Some tubas have a fifth
and even a sixth valve, but these are rare. The tubist plays into a very deep cup
mouthpiece, which facilitates the sounding of low notes as well as pedal tones.

Range and Registral Characteristics
The modem tuba is always notated in the bass clef.
exam ple

Ю -8 5. Range

Any tuba player in the modem symphony orchestra will be able to play any­
where in its wide range. Many tubists, however, own more than one instrument
and will change instruments if another is more appropriate for a particular
score.
4 n bands, the Sousaphone, with its strangely rearranged bell, is popular but never used in
a modem symphony orchestra. It is able, however, to play all parts originally written for the
tuba.

In d iv id u a l B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s
1 0 - 8 6 . Registral Characteristics

e x a m p le

Deep and heavy

Verystrong

Getting weaker
but quite intense
I---------------------- 1

I----------- I

Because of its size the instrument speaks a bit sluggishly at the bottom of its
range, but is refreshingly agile from its middle register on up. Its low register
has been described as weaker in sound than its strong middle register; but if the
low notes are written as slow-moving bass notes they can be controlled very
well and will sound effective at any dynamic level, from f f to pp.
In the middle register the tuba's tone color is smooth and round, like that of
the horn, due to its conical bore and deep mouthpiece. Its sound gets much thin­
ner and more intense, losing some of its characteristic quality, as it approaches
the extreme upper register.
The following passage, one of the most famous solos for the tuba, shows
how effective this instrument can sound in its middle and upper registers.
i o - 8 7 . Musorgsky-Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition, "Bydlo," mm.

exam ple

1-10

CD-3/TR. 87

It takes a great deal of breath to play this largest of all brass instruments;
therefore, special care must be taken to write parts that do not tire out the per­
former. We strongly recommend writing frequent rests in passages.

Articulation and Tonguing
Many different types of articulations at different dynamic levels are possible on
the tuba. As on the other brass instruments, all notes within the same slur wall
be performed automatically in one breath. The following slurred passage, which
showcases the tuba's nice, round sound in its middle and higher registers, is
played softly.

1 0-88 . Mahler, Symphony No. 1, third movement, mm. 15-23

exam p le

Andante
Tba.

/ [. j

A
»

PP
19

--------- ------------------------- -

CD-3/TR. 88

351

352

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Single, double, and triple tonguing can all be executed on the tuba, although
double and triple tonguing are not commonly used in standard orchestral literature.
The tuba's ability‘to play powerful attacks is illustrated in the following
passage.
C D -3/T R . 8 9

example i o-89. Powerful Attacks on the Tuba

s 9 * > .p < j6 f

& >рр< &

The tuba is also capable of playing soft, smooth, lyrical passages, such as the
following from Wagner's early opera Der fliegende Hollander.
C D -3/T R. 9 0

exam ple

1 0-90. Wagner, Der fliegende Hollander, Act I, "Die Frist ist um," mm.

175-181

The following faster passages, also containing wide skips, illustrate the
tuba's surprising agility, considering its size.
C D -3/T R. 9 1

exam p le

10^.91 . Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5, first movement, at [23]
Andante J = 48

Tba.

i

C D -3 n -R . 9 2

exam p le

'j.

n m

1 0 - 9 2 . Ravel, La Valse, 5 mm. after |

Allegro, in 1

XT

I n d i v id u a l B r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

The tuba is a great doubler and can reinforce any bass part at both a loud
and soft dynamic. Here, the tuba adds a pizzicato-like edge to the tone as it dou­
bles the double basses, which play arco.

10-93 . Mahler, Symphony No. 6, fourth movement, mm. 178-180

exam ple

C O -3/ TR

93

(tuba only)

TbflL

Щ ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY
Gershwin, An American in Paris, 3 mm. after [67]
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 7, second movement, mm. 198-216
R. Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel, mm. 553-558

Mutes

CD-ROM
CD-3
MUTED TUBA

A single type of mute is available for the tuba. Since the mute is a bit awkward
to insert and remove from the bell of the instrument, the composer or orchestra­
tor should allow enough time for the player to do this noiselessly. The following
passage for muted tuba takes advantage of the middle and higher portions of
the instrument's range.
e x a m p l e Ю-94. Muted Tuba

C D -3/T R . 9 4

Andante
Tba.

Special Effects
Trills
In symphonic literature trills have seldom been written for the tuba, but
when called for they are very effective. They can be produced by manipulating
the valves.
exam p le

158

1 0-95. Wagner, DieMeistersinger, Prelude, mm. 158-165

Allegro

CD-3ATR. 9 5

353

354

T h e S tu d y

o f

O r c h e s tr a tio n

Flutter Tonguing
More recent composers have drawn on a variety of special effects, such as
this very soft flutter tonguing from Schoenberg's Envartung.
C D -3/T R. 9 6

exam ple 1 0-96. Schoenberg, Erwartung, m. 426
Tba.

ppp

Ot h e r Me m b e r s o f
t h e T u b a F a m il y
Euphonium and Tenor Tuba
In some places, particularly in the United States, the euphonium replaced
Wagner's tenor tuba and has often been used to read the letter's parts. But of
late new Wagner tubas have appeared and are being utilized by today's com­
posers (for instance, by Christopher Rouse in his Symphony No. 1). Like the
more modem tubas described above, the euphonium is a nontransposing in­
strument and is notated in the bass clef. Therefore, when reading Wagner tuba
parts notated in the treble clef, the euphonium player must transpose down a
major 9th.
exam ple

Ю -97. Range

The euphonium has the same range as the bass trombone, but is constructed
like a miniature tuba with a conical bore and flared bell. It has four valves. The
euphonium has a very mellow and smooth sound, with none of the pitch prob­
lems that plagued the Wagner tubas.
Very few orchestral composers have written specifically for the euphonium.
It appears extensively, however, in band and wind ensemble literature, where it
doubles or substitutes for the baritone (see below) or is given its own prominent
parts. In American orchestras, the following passage is usually performed on
the euphonium.
C D -3/T R . 9 7

exam ple

i o - 9 8 . R. Strauss, Don Quixote, m m . 140-142

In d iv id u a l B r a s s I n s t r u m e n t s

Ш- A D D I T I O N A L P A S S A G E S F O R S T U D Y

Euphonium:
Grainger, Sir Eglamore and To a Nordic Princess (throughout)
Harris, When Jonny Comes Marching Home Again (throughout)
Kupferman, Symphony of the Yin-Yang (throughout)
Ruders, Symphony No. 2 (throughout)
Wagner (Tenor) Tuba:
Bruckner, Symphonies Nos. 7 and 8 (throughout)
C. Rouse, Symphony No. 1 (throughout)
Schoenberg, Gurrelieder (throughout)
R. Strauss, Elektra and Alpine Symphony (throughout)
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps (throughout)
Wagner, The Ring Cycle, especially Siegfried, Act Ш, Prelude, and
Gotterdammerung, Act I, scene 1 (directly after the Prelude)

Baritone
Although strictly speaking a band instrument, the baritone is closely related to
the euphonium and sometimes even substitutes for it. Its range, however, is the
same as that of the tenor trombone. The player manipulates its pitches with
three valves.
exam ple

Ю-99. Range

The baritone is very agile and blends well with all other instruments in the
band. You will find excerpts for it in Examples 17-19a and 17-20a.

Ophicleide
This instrument looks very much like a metal bassoon, except that it has a coni­
cal tube that flares widely into a bell that is eight inches in diameter. Large holes
are cut into the tube, and each of these is covered by a padded disc manipulated
by keys similar to those on modem woodwind instruments. Since the mouth­
piece is a little more cupped than that of the modem horn, it produces quite a
mellow sound, similar to that of a euphonium. It is a nontransposing instrument
and is notated in the bass clef.
The tuba has completely replaced this instrument, which performed the bass
parts of the brass section throughout the nineteenth century, i Berlioz,
Mendelssohn, Schumann, Meyerbeer, Verdi, and many other composers of this
period wrote for it. One of its last appearances was in Wagner's Rienzi.
Nowadays, ophicleide parts, if not assigned to the tuba, are given to the bassoon
or contrabassoon.

356

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

К

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR STUDY

Trumpet:
Debussy, La Mer, third movement, [44]-[45] (muted trumpet)
Franck, Symphony in D minor, first movement, mm. 127-145 (doubles English
horn and other woodwinds)
Hovhaness, Saint Vartan Symphony, second movement, "Tapor" (three trumpets
and percussion)
Piston, Symphony No. 2, first movement, second theme, at |205|
Rimsky-Korsakov, Le Coq d'or Suite, first movement, opening
Scriabin, Poem of Ecstasy, mm. 95-101, at Allegro non troppo, principal theme
R. Strauss, Also sprach Zarathustra, opening
Horn:
Brahms, Piano Concerto No. 2, first movement, mm. 1-5
Brahms, Symphony No. 2, first movement, mm. 2-5 (two horns)
Dvorak, Symphony No. 8, fourth movement, mm. 63-64,95-96 (horn trills)
Mahler, Symphony No. 3, first movement, mm. 1-23 (eight horns in unison, then
divisi’in extremely low register)
R. Strauss, Sinfonia domestica, [711~[77|(horn in extremely high register)
Stravinsky, Symphony in Three Movements, third movement, at |163|(horn
glissando)
Wagner, Der fliegende Hollander, Overture, mm. 2-15
Wagner, Das Rheingold, Prelude, m. 17ff. (eight horns)
Wagner, Siegfried Idyll, mm. 259-274 (horn trill at "Lebhaft" in m. 274)
Trumpet and Horn:
Respighi, Pines of Rome, first movement, beginning
R. Shchedrin, Symphony No. 2, first and second movements
Trombone:
Berlioz, Requiem, "Hostias" movement, at [74] (pedal tones)
Hindemith, Mathis der Maler, first movement, opening
Ravel, Bolero, 3 mm. after [jfi] to flT]
Rimsky-Korsakov, Russian Easter Overture, solo at |m|
Wagner, Rienzi, Overture, mm. 110-155 (three trombones and tuba)
Tuba:
Berlioz, Benvenuto Cellini, Overture, |18[-|19| (very high tuba part)
Chavez, Symphony No. 6, third movement, beginning
Gershwin, An American in Paris, 4 mm. after [67| to [681
Respighi, Fountains of Rome, fourth movement, [11 Им]
Respighi, Pines of Rome, last movement, 4 mm. beforeffil (trombones, horns,
trumpets, tuba)
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, third movement, [З] to 4 mm. after ЦГ1
Stravinsky, Petrushka, Fourth Tableau, "Dance of the Peasant and the Bear"
Large Brass Ensembles in Symphonic Works:
Berlioz, Requiem, "Dies irae," at [l8] (four brass "orchestras")
Janacek, Sinfonietta, first movement
S. Ran, Symphony No. 1, first movement, from [Ё] to |T|
Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps (throughout)
Wagner, Siegfried, opening of Act П (horns, tenor tubas, bass tubas, and
contrabass tuba)

PR A C TIC E
IN

1

S co rin g for B r a s s ,
AND B R A S S COM BINED
w ith S t r i n g s a n d W in d s
Even though the brass choir contains some of the oldest instruments in
Western culture, not until the latter part of the nineteenth century did orchestral
composers start to explore it to its greatest potential. This was perhaps due to the
reluctance of many mid-nineteenth-century composers to accept the mechanical
advances being made to the construction of the trumpet and horn. Or perhaps it
was due to their preference for the sound of natural instruments; Wagner and
Brahms, for instance, used natural trumpets and horns in quite a few works even
though instruments with valves were available to them. Since the turn of the
twentieth century the brass choir has certainly gained much wider acceptance.
This chapter focuses on how to employ the orchestral brass section to its
greatest advantage. First we will look at a number of scores that trace the brass
section's development from a solo choir in the Renaissance through its more se­
lective uses in the Baroque and discreet appearances in the Classical and early
Romantic orchestras, to its full exploitation starting around the turn of the twen­
tieth century. Then we will discuss the four major functions of the brass choir:
1. as a homophonic unit (alone or in combination with other orchestral choirs);
2. as a presenter of melody (as a soloist, in combination with other instru­
ments, or as an independent voice in a contrapuntal texture);
3. as a builder of orchestral climaxes;
4. as a provider of coloristic effects (muted, jazzy, or more novel sounds and
techniques).
At the outset we must warn composers and orchestrators not to overuse this
powerful sound resource, for it can easily overshadow the rest of the orchestra.

Early U s e s o f th e
B r a s s C h o ir
Before the Classical period it is virtually impossible to establish the number or
kinds of brass instruments in common use. We know that during the
Renaissance the doublings of brass instruments depended on the size of the
room, hall, or church and the availability of players. For instance, the Interlude
from In ecclesiis by Giovanni Gabrieli (1557-1612), written to be performed in St.
Mark's Cathedral in Venice, was probably played by three trumpets and three
trombones; this group may have been doubled by an identical group, each play­
ing from a different balcony.
357

ORCHESTRATION

1

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

C D -4/T R . 3 1

e x a m p l e

1 1 - 1 . Gabrieli, In ecclesiis, mm. 51-67

I

51

I

I

1J

Tpt. 1,2
Tpt.3

*

J J i
Trb.

It---------- 1*-----55

J

i

i

U U U

Л .П Л

feTm ^ j

f

f

1— a |— a |__ q __

TpL 1.2
Tpt.3

Trb.

л л п

r p j -------------- ---------- .

>

u

1

Л

-

J

J

J J

r f
Л Л j

j

ij

-

-Ф-

^—Е-д CUL f t J '

Tpt. 1,2
TpL 3

During the Baroque period two or three horns were usually used, most often
with three trumpets, which were almost always coupled with timpani; the
trombones were used in threes. This may sound like a large complement, but
except for some "battle pieces," outdoor works such as Handel's Water Music,
and a few operatic scenes, the full brass section rarely if ever played together at
the same time. Instead, these instruments, if they were used in the same work,
usually played in different movements. Therefore, if you hear a Baroque work
with trumpets, horns, and trombones playing together in unison or octaves, it is
probably an arrangement, not an original. Keep in mind that the clarino style of
trumpet playing was very much in vogue during this period, as was the high
register of the horn.
The noble opening of the Royal Fireworks Music by Handel, with its homophonic texture, resembles the Gabrieli excerpt given above; notice, however, the

exam ple

11 -2 . Handel, Royal Fireworks Music, Overture, mm. 1-19

CO-4/TR. 32

IN P R A C T I C E

doublings of the three trumpet parts by the three horns. Later on the trumpets and
the homs play in antiphony, but they ultimately return to the homophonic texture
used at the beginning of the work, shown here. In the score given in Example 11-2
all instruments are notated at actual concert pitch; originally both horns and trum­
pets were D instruments, the hom sounding an octave below the trumpets.

359

ORCHESTRATION

SCO RIN G FOR B R A S S , AND B R A S S COM BINED WITH S T R IN G S AND WINDS

IN P R A C T I C E

360

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Bsn. 1

Bsn. 2
Cbsn.

Hn.l

Hn. 3

Timp.

Vln. 2

Vic.
D.B.

1v та ** ^
L*y f f~ pd
L p S i

^-p f pf f 1— f^T f -p-f-T г Г 1r--pr—
lr

Г is Г ~Pf Гг

PRA CTIC E
IN

361

ORCHESTRATION

S C O R IN G F O R B R A S S , A N D B R A S S C O M B I N E D W IT H S T R I N G S A N D W IN D S

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

362

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

At the height of the Classical period trombones were not included in most
symphonies, although they were still standard in opera and church orchestras.
Even as late as his Symphony No. 5, Beethoven waits until the final movement
before introducing the trombones, which, coming after a marvelously suspense­
ful buildup, contribute to the tremendous musical climax at the start of the
movement. Notice how much more versatile the trombones are than the horns
and trumpets, which, starting in measure 5, get stuck on tonic and dominant
notes once the initial fanfare chord is over.
example

Allegro ( J = 84)

Allegro ( J = 84)

11 -a. Beethoven, Symphony No. 5, fourth movement, mm. 1-8

Do u b l i n g

ORCHESTRATION

This is certainly a most effective use of the brass choir. But when the brass are
scored in such a vigorous manner continuously throughout a work, the result­
ing sound gets bombastic and tiresome; it also robs the climactic passages of
their full power and majesty.

B r a s s In s t r u m e n t s
Mo d e r n O r c h e s t r a

of

w it h in t h e
П М И М Н В М М М М

With the establishment of the orchestral brass section in the late Classical pe­
riod, two horns, two trumpets, and three trombones became the norm; the tuba
was added just a bit later. Subsequently the section grew to four horns, the rest
of the complement remaining the same; this resulted in a section capable of
playing a chord with nine different notes. When the brass section expanded to
four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, and tuba, as is usual today, chords
containing eleven notes became available. Thus, in typical four-note chords,
quite a lot of doubling is used.
Here are some chords successfully scored for brass; all the notes are at con­
cert pitch. Notice that the techniques of juxtaposing, interlocking, enclosing, and
overlapping, discussed in Chapter 8 for the woodwind choir (pp. 253-254), also
apply here:
exam p le

11 -4. Usual Doublings of the Brass Choir within the Modem

Orchestra

What and when to double often depends on the dynamic level of the pas­
sage: when the dynamic is m/or softer, each brass instrument can be assigned a
separate pitch, and depending on the registral placement, the chord will sound
well balanced. When the dynamic is louder than mf, it is advisable to double the
horns, which when played in unison will roughly equal the sound of one trum­
pet or one trombone. This rule, however, does not apply if the trumpet is in a
low register, but it is generally a good one to keep in mind. The following exam­
ples of doublings are in a transposed score.

363

IN P RA CTIC E

S C O R IN G F O R B R A S S , A N D B R A S S C O M B I N E D W IT H S T R I N G S A N D W IN D S

C D -4/TR- 3 4

IN P R A C T I C E

364

T he S tudy

CD~4At r . 3 5

o f o r c h e st r a t io n

exam p le

1 1 - 5 . How Dynamic Levels Affect Doubling and Spacing

ORCHESTRATION

Transposed Score

4 FHn.

2 BiTpt.

Trb. 1
Trb. 2
Trb. 3
Tba.

Ho m o p h o n ic W riting
t h e B r a s s C ho ir

for

The orchestral brass choir can be used homophonically, either by itself or in
combination with the string and woodwind choirs through the use of
doubling.

Homophonic Settings within the
Brass Choir Itself
Stravinsky, J. S. Bach Chorale Varations
In his }. S. Bach Chorale Varations Stravinsky orchestrates a Bach Christmas
carol. His choice of instruments, three trumpets and three trombones, is remi­
niscent of seventeenth-century brass Turm-Musik* (tower music). The very
interesting voice leading, which is sometimes Bach's and sometimes Stra­
vinsky's, is due partly to the independence of all six parts. Stravinsky, who
added two other parts to Bach's original four-part chorale, created thick brass
writing, perhaps simulating a combination of stops on an organ. If played
well, this passage is very effective, but the last phrase can easily sound
muddy.

'M a n y seventeenth- and eighteenth-century com posers, such as Jo h an n C hristoph Pezel,
Johann Pachelbel, J. S. Bach, and A nton Reiche, w rote Turm-Musik, played from the tow er of
the church as the congregation left the bu ild ing at the end of the service.

C o m b in e d

w it h

S t r in g s

e x a m p l e 11-6. Stravinsky, J. S. Bach Chorale Variations on "Vom Hiittmel hoch,"

mm. 1-8
j = 82

If composers are asked to transcribe music from the Baroque era, they
should realize, as Stravinsky did, that they must think, feel, and hear as if they
were writing in the Baroque idiom. We shall look at another example from these
variations later in the chapter.

and

Win d s

c d -4/ tr . 36

365

PRACTIC

b r a s s , and b r a s s

IN

for

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

366

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Homophonic Settings of Brass Combined
with Other Choirs
Let us now examine some typical homophonic passages involving the brass
and at least one other orchestral section. Carefully note spacing, voice leading,
and doublings; you might wish to use different-colored pencils to mark the
doublings and make piano reductions to ascertain which pitches are essential
and how these have been doubled. Always be aware of the melody, or those
melody notes the composer wishes to stress; try to figure out the reasons be­
hind the composer's choices as well as how he or she carries these emphases
off.

Bruckner, Symphony No. 7
In this original version of the last movement from Bruckner's Seventh
Symphony, a huge climax is effected by the brass, which dominate the heavily
scored homophonic texture of this passage and lend it tremendous weight.
Notice, in measures 191-198, where the brass choir is doubled at the unison or
octave by the strings or woodwinds; this occurs for some pitches but not all,
giving the effect of flickering tone color. The quasi-doubling of the excerpt's
opening measures returns in measure 210 for one measure, becoming strict oc­
tave doubling in measure 211 as the climax is built. Study these measures care­
fully; the bass tubas are written in the old-fashioned system and therefore must
be read in the following ways: Bt> tenor tubas a major 9th below, F bass tubas a
perfect 12 th below, and CC contrabass tuba at pitch.

PRA CTICE

CtWWTR. 3 7

IN

11 -7. Bruckner, Symphony No. 7, last movement, mm. 191-212

ORCHESTRATION

exam ple

PRA CTICE

th e

S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

Q Brelt und wuchtig

IN

368

ORCHESTRATION

sempreff

—

(sc/uoer)

~

(schwer)

(schwer)

marc.
marc.

(schwer)

(schwer)
BtTen.
T b a 1.2

(schwer)

(schwer)

|l£--(schwer)

(schwer)

(schwer)

marc.

(schwer)

marc.

B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w i t h S t r i n g s

and

W in d s

369

PRA CTICE

fo r

ORCHESTRATION

IN

S c o r in g

Bt>Ten.
Tba. 1,2

marc.

mam. sempre

more, sempre

marc.

marc.

marc.

more, sempre

marc, sempre

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

370

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

IN

371

ORCHESTRATION

SCO RIN G FOR B R A S S , AND B R A S S COM BINED WITH S T R IN G S AND W INDS

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

372

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Elgar, Enigma Variations
The brass again predominate in this powerful, choralelike ending to
from Elgar's Enigma Variations. Study the doublings carefully; those at the octave
and double octave are very effective in obtaining such a massive sound.
C D -4/T R . 3 8

exam ple

11 -e. Elgar, Enigma Variations, "W.M.B./' mm. 25-32

Musorgsky-Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition, "The Great Gate
of Kiev"
In the famous opening of this last movement from Pictures at an Exhibition,
Ravel fills out and doubles the bass parts with two bassoons and contrabassoon,
leaving Trombones 1 and 2 to play in their more brilliant range. The grace notes
in Musorgsky's original piano part, which emphasize the piano's bass range, are
disregarded in Ravel's orchestration; they are superfluous in the orchestral ver­
sion, given the strength of the tuba and contrabassoon. The timpani, which usu­
ally support the roots of the chords, basically have a pedal on the dominant
pitch, Bl>, instead. This pedal is finally resolved when the winds come in at mea­
sure 13 and El>predominates in the timpani.
e x a m p l e 11 -9. Musorgsky-Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition, "The Great Gate of
Kiev," mm. 1-17

a. MUSORGSKY'S ORIGINAL PIANO VERSION
1

Maestoso

s 'л

*

--Ч

4

/
Цр-р----

чм *7$

* i

-----

—

9
— r

\_p

-4 - f
n -

b. RAVEL'S ORCHESTRATION

—

—

- —
г » — j*- - j ____ ;

I

Г

-8 — -f

373

IN P R A C T I C E

B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g f o r

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

374

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

There are, of course, hundreds of examples in which brass instruments are
used as soloists, either alone or in combination with other instruments. Some
of these solos were excerpted in the previous two chapters. In Chapter 10 we
also examined examples for multiple trumpets, horns, or trombones. In this
section we will explore the entire brass section used as soloist, whether alone,
doubled by instruments of other orchestral sections, or within a contrapuntal
texture.

As Soloist
Hindemith, Nobilissima visione
In the third movement of his Nobilissima visione, Hindemith uses the brass in
unison and octaves, a technique that creates a strong and penetrating sound.
This powerful presentation of the passacaglia theme features four F horns and
two С trumpets playing in octaves, with three trombones doubling the horns in
unison. This doubling results in a dark sound, since neither the trumpets nor
horns ever go into their higher ranges. Only the trombones are scored in their
upper range, which adds strength and nobility to the sound. If Hindemith had
wanted an extremely bright sound he could have transposed the passage up a
3rd or 4th, having the trumpets and horns play in a high register. Instead, what­
ever brilliance this passage actually conveys results from the unison horns and
trombones.
exam ple

li-io. Hindemith, Nobilissima visione, third movement (Passacaglia),

mm. 1-6
j

Fteierlich bewegt ( J bis 80)

Hindemith saves the tuba until the second variation, at [34~| (score not included
here), where it gives a fresh new color to the theme in its rendition two octaves

PRA CTIC E
IN

USING THE B R A S S CH OIR TO P R E S E N T
t h e Me l o d y

375

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h S t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

376

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

lower. In subsequent repetitions of the theme Hindemith sometimes doubles
the brass with other members of the orchestra, introducing ever new sheens of
color.

Using Four Unison Horns
The presentation of a melody by four horns in unison has been a favorite de­
vice to achieve a brilliant musical climax since Wagner, Mahler, and Richard
Strauss (see Example 10-12, from Don Juan). However, we often wince when
horn players crack during such wonderful passages. We quote from Gunther
Schuller, who as composer, orchestrator, and horn player, sheds some light on
this problem:
When more than one horn player attempts a high passage at a loud dynamic
level, unless their intonation is perfect, a curious phenomenon takes place. The
fractional intonational differences set up . . . vibrations so intense in the
immediate vicinity of the players . . . that it becomes virtually impossible for any
one of the players to sustain his note. That is the reason why one hears so many
cracked notes in high register unison horn passages. It is therefore advisable to
orchestrate such passages, whenever possible, for first and third horn alone, or
to reinforce the two horns with one trumpet.
The acoustical explanation of this disturbing phenomenon is that high notes
on a horn create such intensely vibrating air columns that another player's lips
and instrument, if in the immediate vicinity, are physically affected. If the same
unison passage were attempted with each player sitting ten feet apart, the
problem would . . . be eliminated.*

In Combination with Other Instruments
We shall now look at a few instrumental combinations to illustrate the wide
variety of colors a composer or orchestrator can assign to the melody. You
may wish, from this point on, to reduce some of the scores for either piano or
piano four hands so that you notice every doubling. We suggest you do
this for Example 11-15, a rather easy example, and Example 11-18, a harder
one.

R. Strauss, Don Quixote
The horn and cello often double on long, sustained melodies. In Example
11-11, the solo cello line is doubled by the first four horns, whose entrances are
staggered, an effect that gives the melody added articulation. Notice that in this
example the horns are notated in the old style, putting them in the bass clef; the
written pitches will sound a perfect 4th higher.

'G u n th er Schuller, Нот Technique (O xford U niversity Press, 1962), pp. 82-83.

IN P R A C T I C E

C D -4/T R. 4 1

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

e x a m p le 11 -i 1 . R. Strauss, Don Quixote, mm. 189-193

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

Weinberger, Polka and Fugue from Schzvanda the Bagpiper
e x a m p l e

11-12.

mm. 185-191

Weinberger, Polka and Fugue from Schwanda the Bagpiper,

IN P R A C T I C E

379

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r b r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d W in d s

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

In the Weinberger excerpt given above (Example 11-12), С trumpets double
the oboes, a very common combination. Both instruments have a sharp edge to
their tone, and even though all the instruments, including an organ, are playing,
the melody can still be heard.

ORCHESTRATION

IN P R A C T I C E

380

Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5
At the beginning of the third movement to his Symphony No. 5 Prokofiev
gives a heavier feeling to the rather soft bass melody by doubling it with the
tuba. This also strengthens and darkens the sound.
C D -4/ T R . 4 3

ex a m p le
.

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

11-13. Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5, third movement, mm. 1-3
A d a g io (

J = 60)

B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w it h S t r in g s a n d w in d s

Wagner, Siegfried
This dramatic opening presents a combination of different articulations: the
solo tuba, which articulates every note, is doubled by bass clarinet and bas­
soons, which slur the melody.
e x a m p l e

11-14.

Wagner, Siegfried, Prelude to Act Ш, m m . 1-7

C D -4/ T R . 4 4

381

IN P R A C T I C E

for

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g

PRA CTICE

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

382

Schubert, Rosamunde
In Example 11-15 a most popular doubling—trombones with bassoons, vio­
las, cellos, and double basses—occurs starting in measure 114; here the trom­
bones contribute to the powerful effect of the tutti that starts in measure 114.
After that, Schubert orchestrates a beautiful diminuendo by dropping out the
first two trombones and leaving only the third to bolster the lower strings.

c d -4/ tr. 45

PRA CTICE

11-15. Schubert, Rosamunde, Entr'acte I, mm. 106-123

IN

e x a m p le

383

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r b r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w i t h s t r i n g s a n d W in d s

PR A CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

384

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

SCORING FOR B R A S S , AND B R A S S COM BINED WITH S T R IN G S AND WINDS

Liszt, Les Preludes
Tuba, plus trombones, bassoons, cellos, and double basses constitute one of
the most powerful combinations in the symphony orchestra.
example

t i - 16 . Liszt, Les Preludes, mm. 405—410
Andante maestoso

C D -4/ T R . 4 6

385

Timp.

-y-y-i— у

У f- i — 4-

Sn. Dr.
Cymb.

-У — h

Bs. Dr.

-У— h

-y—y-y—i------у—J--- y-

-*-4-

- y - i --------- У— h

Vln. 11

Vln. 2 V

Via.

Vic.
D.B.

Tchaikovsky, 1812 Overture
Another powerful combination—trombones, tuba, horns, bassoons, and
lower strings—presents the Russian national anthem ("God Save the Tsar") in
the bass register against heavily orchestrated counterpoint. Compare the differ­
ent textures of Examples 11-16 and 11-17.

e x a m p l e

1 1 - 1 7 . Tchaikovsky, 1812 Overture, mm. 386-398

PRA CTICE

t h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

388

I %fl№ ДЗгJI»ЛЗН

Band <

¥
-y e t-fa

Pioc.
a

a
щ
Д Я

FL

O b.

a

r

-E

Щ

«►

о _____

.

£

<3

3

-g

f . f

*----- :

tt+=

3

3

— 3

3

Г * -ш = ъ ~P

E n g . H n.

a cor.

“К ”
“ rfrrt
fffff ГГГГГ
« А # # #

•J f J g _ E

■ ».£~ g я g , ^

Oil

cl

& У
fjJQ--j

€►

1

- f -

In this extraordinary spot in Lohengrin, the choralelike melody played by the
trumpets, trombones, and tuba is first doubled by the strings, then by the wood­
winds, at the end of which a diminuendo leads to a gorgeous pianissimo chord.
We suggest making a piano reduction of this score in order to identify all the
doublings, so characteristic of Wagner's orchestration technique. In your reduc­
tion, be sure to label the principal voices, as well as the instruments that double
these voices and places where the doubling is taken up by another instrument
or instruments.

PRACTICE
IN

Wagner, Lohengrin

389

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g f o r b r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w it h S t r in g s a n d W in d s

PR A C TIC E

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

CD-4/TR. 4 8

exa m ple

i i - i a. Wagner, Lohengrin, Prelude to Act I, irun. 50-58

Andante motto

ORCHESTRATION

IN

390

I- If

,

^ ______________ -

Eng. Hn.

A Cl.

A Bs. Cl.

E Hn.

DHn.1

DTpt.

f sehr gehalten

f sehr gehalten

f sehr gehalten

Cymb.

Vln. 1

trevL

X

PR A C TIC E
IN

391

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d b r a s s c o m b i n e d w i t h S t r i n g s a n d Wi n d s

th e stu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

FO R FU R TH E R S TU D Y

IN

PRA CTICE

392

ORCHESTRATION

Copland, Appalachian Spring, [59]—
ГбТ]
Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kije, 'Troika," at [
Stravinsky, Pulcinella, |85|~[94]

C o n t r a p u n t a l Wr it in g
C h o ir

for the

B rass

We turn now to excerpts that illustrate several ways in which composers have
used members of the brass choir in a contrapuntal setting, either with instru­
ments from other orchestral sections or within the brass section itself. Some of
the excerpts are in strict imitation, others are in a freer style.

Berlioz, Roman Carnival Overture
The effectiveness of the canon in this excerpt is due as much to color contrasts as
to registral differences, which separate the various statements of the canonic
subject. This subject is first stated by the two bassoons in unison, then by the
three trombones, and later by flutes and oboes in octaves (notice that six mea­
sures earlier the flutes and oboes anticipate their statement by playing a slight
intervallic variation of the theme in unison).
C D -4/T R . 4 9

e x a m p le

1 1 - 1 9 Berlioz, Roman Carnival Overture, mm. 298-344

ы
и
S C O R IN G F O R B R A S S , A N D B R A S S C O M B I N E D W IT H S T R I N G S A N D W IN D S

393

I
0

PR A C TIC E

IN
ORCHESTRATION

394

The stu d y o f O rc h e s tr a tio n

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

v

395

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

396

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h S t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

397

ORCH ESTRA TION

Stravinsky, J. S. Bach Chorale Variations
In Variation IV of this work, in imitative counterpoint, Stravinsky simulates the
sound of the many stops on a Baroque organ by using the winds and brass
(trumpets, trombones, flutes, and bassoons) to play the canonic voices; the vio­
las, cellos, double basses, and lower bassoons double the chorus. Even though
the trumpets are not playing in a high tessitura, they play a clarino-like part.
Compare Bach's original version (given in smaller noteheads below the score)
with Stravinsky's rendition. Notice that Stravinsky transposed this variation to
give the orchestra a more brilliant sound.
e x a m p l e 11 - 20 . Stravinsky, }. S. Bach Chorale Variations on "Vom Himmel hoch,"
Variation IV, mm. 1-8

c o - a /t r . s o

P legato

PRA CTIC E

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

398

Hindemith, Symphonic Metamorphoses
Here is a jaunty fugato for the entire brass choir, ending when the timpani pre­
sent their version of the fugue subject at measure 192, which is punctuated by
the brass choir starting in measure 195. This punctuation using brass instru­
ments is a favorite device of Hindemith, as well as of other composers. Notice
that all the instruments are in their best registers, which allows the subject to
come through clearly every time it is heard.

C O -4/ TR . 5 1

PRA CTICE

1 1 -2 1 . Hindemith, Symphonic Metamorphoses, second movement, mm.

399

IN

exam p le

160-195

B r a s s , a n d b r a s s C o m b in e d w it h S t r i n g s a n d W in d s

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g f o r

PRA CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n
172

ORCHESTRATION

IN

400

177

ORCHESTRATION

IN

182

401

PRACTICE

S c o r in g f o r B r a s s , a n d b r a s s c o m b i n e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d Win d s

187

PR A C TIC E

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e st r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

402

Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra
Another fugato, one of the best-known brass passages in twentieth-century
orchestral literature, comes from the first movement of Bartok's Concerto for
Orchestra. The trombones and trumpets present the main theme, which is
then inverted by the horns and the rest of the brass section starting in mea­
sure 342. Here, as in many other examples in this chapter, the composer
.equates the strength of two horns in unison with that of one trumpet or one
trombone. The cumulative effect of the stretto in measures 363-386 is espe­
cially thrilling.

PRA CTIC
ION

Tempo 1 (J. = 83-90)

CO -4/TR . 5 2

IN

exam ple 11 -22 . Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra, first movement, mm. 316-387
(brass only in mm. 316-339 and 380-387)

F I 1,2

Ob. 1. 2

» C L 1,2

Bsn. 2 ,3

Hn. 1, 3

Hn. 2,4

Trb. 1

Trb. 2

325

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

404

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

PR A C TIC E
IN

405

ORCHESTRATION

SCO RIN G FOR B R A S S , AND B R A S S COM BINED WITH S T R IN G S AND WINDS

PR A CTICE
IN

T he S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

352

ORCHESTRATION

406

361

370

IN
ORCHESTRATION

407

PRAC

i
S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d b r a s s c o m b i n e d w it h S t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

PR A CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

408

T H E STU D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra
In the virtuosic passage from the first of Schoenberg's Five Pieces for Orchestra
(Example 11-23), even though all the brass instruments use straight mutes they
are expected to play loudly, except for the ffp p at measure 73. Notice how the
independent lines of the trombones, trumpets, and winds work together; notice
also the exuberant horn calls. The flutter tongue at the end is quite a surprise
after all that counterpoint.
As an orchestrator Schoenberg gave significant parts to comparatively ne­
glected members of the orchestra, such as the tuba, double bass, contrabassoon,
and even mandolin. You may wish to examine his Gurrelieder, his opera
Erwartung, and the entire Five Pieces for Orchestra in this light

57-77

11 - 2 3 . Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra, No. 1, "Vorgefiihle," mm.

CD-4m?. s a
---------------

O R C H E S TR A TIO N

exam p le

PR A C TIC E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

410

DCL31

ACba. C L

1

ш

о

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

411

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

412

th e

S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

B r a s s C ho ir

IN

of the

ORCHESTRATION

C lim actic U s e s

Everyone is familiar with the use of brass instruments to effect a musical climax.
Composers have drawn on a variety of techniques to achieve the climactic en­
trance of brass instruments. We give three examples here.

Through Holding Back
One of the most successful ways to build an orchestral climax is by holding back
the use of certain instruments in order to save a certain color for a specific event.
For instance, in Example 11-24 Schubert gives the closing theme of the exposition
an entirely new hue by assigning it to the trombones, who play pianissimo. Until
this point the trombones have been used only to double lines or sustain chords.
This new trombone melody adds an aura of mystery, coming in during a very
quiet moment in the musical texture. The trombones again state this theme at the
close of the recapitulation, which helps to clarify the movement’s sonata form.
exam ple

i i -24.

Schubert, Symphony No. 9, f ir st movement, mm. 198-232

413

PRA CTICE

S c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d b r a s s C o m b i n e d w it h S t r i n g s a n d W i n d s

C D -4/TR. 5 4

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

414

th e

S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

PR A C TIC E

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e st r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

416

Through Alternating between
Orchestral Choirs
In the following example the brass alternate with the other orchestral choirs.
The climax is played mainly by the strings and winds (notice that the horns
are treated as part of the woodwind section). Franck uses trumpets and cor­
nets, a typical French procedure, but today the trumpets usually play all the
parts.

PRA CTICE

co~vtr. 55

IN

e x a m p le 11 -25. Franck, Symphony in D minor, third movement, mm. 7 4 -8 7

417

ORCHESTRATION

S C O R IN G F O R B R A S S , A N D B R A S S C O M B I N E D W IT H S T R IN G S A N D W IN D S

P R A C TIC E
IN

O R C H ES TR A TIO N

f molto sasten.

Through Repetition
Although many have criticized him for overusing this effect, Tchaikovsky was a
master builder of climaxes. In the following example Tchaikovsky has already
reached a triple fortissimo climax in measure 278, where he reintroduces the
movement's opening trumpet flourish for the third time, this time with a new,
agitated ornamentation of the top woodwind line by the strings. This texture
breaks off in measure 282, and the strings dwindle down to the cellos and
basses only. Then suddenly, a huge tutti begins the recapitulation section of the

e x a m p le

1 1

- 2 6 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4 , first movement, mm. 2 7 8 - 2 9 0

Moderate con anlma
278
FI.

Ob.

Cl.

Bsn.

Hn.

Tpt.

Ten. Trb.

Bs. Trb.,
Tba.

Timp.

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.

D.B.

c d - t r 56
CD-4/TR.

IN P R A C T I C E

movement, where the composer adds, in addition to the timpani roll, a power­
ful new thematic element played by the trombones. Their slower melody
sounds like a cantus firmus, and is pitted contrapuntally against other frag­
ments that were heard previously; here they are played by the winds and upper
strings and supported by the other brass instruments.

419

ORCHESTRATION

SCO RIN G FOR B R A S S , AND B R A S S CO M BIN ED WITH S T R IN G S AND WINDS

PR A C TIC E

420

T he S tud y

ORCHESTRATION

IN

280

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

Win d s

421

I

PRAC’

b r a s s , a n d b r a s s c o m b in e d w it h s t r i n g s a n d

IN

for

ORCHESTRATION

sc o r in g

S c o r in g

for

B r a s s , and

b r a s s c o m b in e d w it h

S t r in g s

There are almost as many instances of this technique as there are works in
the orchestral repertoire; we shall examine some other works that achieve cli­
maxes through repetition in Chapter 14.

and

Win d s

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

U sin g t h e b r a s s C h o ir
a C o lo r istic E f f e c t

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A CTICE

424

to

P ro vid e

Many special effects written for instruments of the brass choir are relatively new
and often are unique to a particular composer's repertoire. In this section we
will examine three taken from jazz, and several others taken from a variety of
sources.

Jazz Effects
Use o f the Wa-Wa (Harmon) Mute
Though the wa-wa mute was initially employed only in jazz, it began to be
used in a great deal of American orchestral music throughout the latter part of
the twentieth century. Here, this mute is used by the trumpet as well as the
trombone/ in a work originally written for jazz band and later transcribed for
orchestra.
C D -4 fT R . ' 5 7

11 -2 7 . Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue (original version for the Whiteman
Band), mm. 131-137

exam p le

Allegro

Use of the Derby Mute
Gershwin's major contribution was in the field of jazz, and when he wrote
for the concert hall he transferred his ideas to orchestral scores. In the next ex­
ample the solo trumpet part carries the indication "In hat with felt crown,"
which indicates to the player to use a Derby mute or hat to muffle the sound.
Notice the muted
that introduces the solo; this effect is very common
today.

IN

c d -4 / t r . S e

ORCHESTRATION

e x a m p l e 1 1 - 2 8 . Gershwin, Concerto in F, second movement, mm. 3 1 - 4 4

425

PRA CTIC E

s c o r i n g f o r B r a s s , a n d B r a s s C o m b in e d w i t h S t r i n g s a n d W in d s

35

PRA CTICE

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

426

"Rip"
The example from Morton Gould's Interplay contains an effect called a
"rip," derived from jazz but now used often in recently composed scores. It
is used here to emphasize the sffz at the end of the phrase. In order to
create this effect the player tongues hard into the note while using the lip to
create a slight slur from below; this also creates a forte attack on the note that
follows.

br a ss

C o m b in e d

w it h

S t r in g s

11 - 2 9 . M. Gould, Interplay, f o u r t h m o v e m e n t , 5 m m . b e f o r e [21]

and w in d s

427

I

PRAC

B r a s s , and

IN

e x a m p le

for

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

428

T he stu d y

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

New Techniques
A Combination of Effects
A fair number of new techniques for brass can be seen in the brief excerpt
given in Example 11-30. Druckman uses two symbols to indicate mutes:

Д = straight mute, and

= harmon mute. The о indicates an open harmon

mute and + one that is closed with the stem. In addition, the symbol n (niente) is
used to indicate a pitch that either starts from nothing or fades out to no sound.
Notice that some of the instruments are open and others are muted; in other
words, while Trumpet 1 may be muted, Trumpet 2 may be open. The score is
meticulously marked, which is mandatory when techniques that are not well es­
tablished are desired. Druckman's demands on the brass choir are extensive, as
they are for the other orchestral choirs that are playing.
i|

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S T U D Y

Dukas, La Peri, "Fanfare"
Janacek, Sinfonietta, opening
Sibelius, Symphony No. 2, third movement, after the repetition of the Trio
Stravinsky, L’histoire du soldat, "March" (comet and trombone)
Wagner, Rienzi, Overture (Allegro energetico)

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRACTICE

It

T3l_

и
и

л

5
:£=г

~z

12
T he P er c u ssio n E n se m b l e

Percussion instruments have been with us since the dawn of humanity, espe­
cially in the highly developed cultures of Asia and Africa. Only in the past cen­
tury has the composer or orchestrator of concert music become aware of thenexpressive potential. The number of percussion instruments available today is
virtually unlimited. This embarrassment of riches is attributable to the fact that
percussionists will go to great lengths to satisfy a composer's wishes, even to
the extent of constructing new instruments on demand. Therefore, it is impossi­
ble for any book, even a specialized one on percussion only, to be all inclusive.
A thoughtful study of the next three chapters, however, should enable the com­
poser or orchestrator to learn about the most common orchestral percussion in­
struments and use this most colorful and versatile section of the orchestra to its
maximum effectiveness.

H is to r ic a l U s e s o f P e r c u s s io n
IN S T R U M E N T S W ITH IN T H E O R C H E S T R A
During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, a few percussion instruments
stemming from Turkish military music were extensively used ih operatic scores.
These included snare drums, triangles, cymbals, and small gongs, plus castanets
and tambourines adopted from the Mediterranean region. A few other instru­
ments put in rare appearances in toy symphonies, and a piece written at the
time of Bach and formerly attributed to him, the cantata Schlage doch gewiinschte
Stunde* includes a bell as the symbol of the tolling death knell. The timpani be­
came fashionable in King Henry VUI's time. Henry Purcell was the first major
composer to use cavalry drums for orchestral purposes. These drums had been
imported from Germany for military use and eventually became the basis for
the modem timpani or kettledrums.
The Turkish instruments slowly made their way from the opera house and
church to the concert hall, and Mozart, Haydn, and Beethoven used some of
them at selected places in their works to illustrate certain militaristic characteris­
tics, for instance in the march variation from the fourth movement (Finale) of
Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. The triangle, cymbals, snare drum, ahd bass

’ According to the musicologist Gerhard Herz, this cantata is by Melchior Hoffman.

431

432

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

F R O M L E F T T O R IG H T , IN F R O N T : R O T O T O M S A N D T O M -T O M S ; IN M ID D L E :
M A R IM B A , V IB R A P H O N E , C O N G A D R U M S , A N D X Y L O P H O N E ; IN B A C K :
S M A L L G O N G , L A R G E G O N G (T A M -T A M ), C H IM E S , B A S S D R U M , S N A R E
D R U M , T IM P A N I, S U S P E N D E D C Y M B A L S , T E N O R D R U M , A N D
G L O C K E N S P IE L .

drum slowly shed their Turkish, military role during the mid- to late nineteenth
century and became fully accepted as color instruments of the standard sym­
phony orchestra.
With the rise of nationalistic composers as well as those who attempted to
simulate the ethnicity of musical cultures other than their own, ethnic instru­
ments such as the castanets, tambourine, cimbalom, and others appeared in the
orchestral percussion section. Also, keyboard instruments such as the glocken­
spiel and xylophone became integrated into the enlarged symphony orchestra
by the end of the nineteenth century. The percussion ensemble did not reach its
full potential until the twentieth century, when it not only grew immensely in
the number of instruments used but also became an orchestral ensemble in and
of itself, particularly in works such as Edgard Varese's Ionisation or George
Antheil's Ballet mechanique. Works for percussion ensemble have become quite
popular since the 1920s.
Another development in the growth of the orchestral percussion section is
also partially due to ethnic consciousness in the West—that is, the renewed in­
terest in the music of Africa, South and Central America, and Asia. The tremen­
dous number of composers stemming from those traditions, as well as many
Western composers interested in simulating these musics, have created an ex­
plosion of new ethnic percussion instruments. American composers such as Lou
Harrison, Henry Brant, and George Crumb have used a great variety of ethnic
instruments in their works. You should also examine the compositions of Torn
Takemitsu, Tan Dun, Bright Sheng, Chen Yi, Xiougang Ye, and Chinary Ung, in
which Asian percussion instruments are combined with Western ones. For
South American idioms it is important to study the use of percussion in the
works particularly of Heitor Villa-Lobos, Alberto Ginastera, Carmelo Saitta, and
Gerardo Gandini.
In this book, our discussion of percussion instruments of necessity is limited
to those most commonly used in Western art music up to the dawn of the

T he P e r c u s s io n

twenty-first century. We urge you to consult the bibliography in Appendix В to
locate the specialty books that contain a wealth of information on the newer,
lesser-known percussion instruments.

a n d D is tr ib u tio n
P e r c u s s io n Pla yer s

n u m b e r
o f

In symphonic circles the timpanist is considered a separate member of the per­
cussion section. The reason for this most likely has to do with the longevity of
the timpani as a regular member of the orchestra and the fact that the timpanist
always plays that instrument only and should not be counted on to take over
any other percussion parts—even though he or she may have time to do so.
The other percussionists play a variety of instruments; usually a percussion
leader assigns the parts to the rest of the section. Those who are not percussion
players often misunderstand what it takes to choreograph a piece so that all in­
struments called for in the score are played and no human clashes or accidental
noises mar the performance. To decide whether one, two, three, four, or even five
percussion players are needed to perform a work, the composer or orchestrator
should first write out all the music and then consider the following two issues:
1. Can one player switch from one instrument to another in sufficient time?
(This could involve, for instance, switching from a mallet instrument to one
played with wooden sticks.)
2. How many percussion instruments can one person play simultaneously?
(For example, this might mean playing a tam-tam with a beater in the right
hand and a suspended cymbal with a stick in the left.)
Try to be as economical of personnel as possible; but for special cases it may be
best to consult with an experienced percussionist before making a decision
about how many players will be needed to perform a particular pigce.

No ta tio n

o f

p e r c u s s io n

In s t r u m e n t s

Many attempts have been made to standardize percussion notation as well as to
agree on a symbolic designation for each instrument. Since such agreement has
not yet been reached, it is incumbent on the composer or orchestrator to notate, in
the dearest possible manner, what the performer is to play. It is best to explain
what any symbolic designations for percussion instruments stand for, both on the
score page and at the beginning of the part, so that the player can easily identify
the instruments. Or, since many percussion players prefer written-out instrument
and mallet names or descriptions rather than symbols, the composer should label
the parts using the full names or appropriate abbreviations as these instruments
occur in the work. In this chapter we will give the most common symbol for each
instrument and provide a short example to illustrate its notation*
*For the best possible thinking on the subject, see Kurt Stone, Music Notation in the 20th

Century (New York: W. W. Norton, 1980), pp. 205ff.

en sem ble

434

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

The notation for pitched percussion instruments occurs on a typical fiveline, treble-def staff, or, in the case of keyboard instruments, on a grand staff.
Notation for nonpitched percussion instruments can vary from score to score,
but can be arranged in one of two general ways:
1. on a five-line staff, using either its lines or its spaces but not both; or
exam ple

12 - 1 . Percussion Notation on Five-Line Staff

S. Dr.

2. on a single-line staff.
exam ple

12 2 . Percussion Notation on Single-Line Staff

s.Dr. Пg у - « в

H ~}

1L

[Г~Н ГТ

In today's scores the second method is preferred. Notice the percussion clef ( D)
used in both of these examples; it is generally reserved for instruments of indefi­
nite or approximate pitch. On a five-line staff it is centered on the third line.
We wifi mention here one common symbol found in percussion scores:
the l.v. designation (which stands for 'let vibrate") or tie after a note; when used
separately or together these symbols direct the percussionist to let the
note or notes on the instrument vibrate for an indefinite period of time (for in­
stance, see Example 12-8). We will discuss other aspects of percussion notation
in Chapter 14.

M ALLETS, B EA TER S , AND S TIC K S
The nomenclature for the devices used to play percussion instruments will be
designated in the following manner:
1. mallets, used for keyboard instruments;
2. beaters, used for other instruments, such as the tam-tam and gongs;
3. sticks, used for all drums.
The symbols for all mallets, beaters, and sticks, given below, are now widely
accepted; nevertheless, they should be explained in a guide to the notation at
the beginning of the score and parts, since some percussionists need to be re­
minded of their meaning.
Metal mallets

m

Hard mallets (wood or plastic heads)
Medium mallets (rubber heads) |yy|
Soft mallets (lamb's wool or soft felt heads)

??

th e

p e r c u s s io n

Wire brushes
Bass drum stick ^
Heavy beater (for tam-tam, etc.) tji
Two hard mallets in each hand |f f f f j
Two soft mallets (l.h.) and two hard mallets (r.h.)

??TT

Two soft mallets in each hand ? ? ? ?

C a t e g o r ie s o f P e r c u s s io n
In s t r u m e n t s
There are several ways to categorize this large kitchen of instruments. We shall
first divide percussion instruments into those that produce clear, audible
pitches (instruments of definite pitch) and instruments whose pitches are not
necessarily clear and audible (instruments of indefinite pitch). Then we will sep­
arate instruments in each of these two large groups by the way they produce
sound, using the four categories first established in the early twentieth century
by Erich von Hombostel:
1. idiophones
2. membranophones
3. chordophones
4. aerophones
It is very important to understand the concept of definite pitch in relation to
all percussion instruments. The dividing line between definite and indefinite
pitch is not at all well defined. The inharmonic (that is, discordant) partials and
the noise factor of a definite-pitch percussion instrument are at times so pro­
nounced that our ear often tolerates deviations from the prescribed pitch that
we would never accept from other instruments of the orchestra. Richard
Strauss, in his revision of Berlioz's Treatise, calls attention to several "out-ofthe-harmojjy" pitches assigned to the timpani by such composers as Beethoven
and Verdi, where retiming to the correct pitch was impossible because there
was not enough time. Nonetheless, if the timpani pitches were close to the ones
called for in the score (for instance, a 2nd away), the harmony of the rest of the
orchestra was played over the "wrong" timpani note. Although neither Strauss
nor any of us today would advocate this practice, especially on the precisely
timed modern timpani, it proves how deceptive the actual pitch of a definitely
pitched percussion instrument can be. On the other hand, the nonpitched in­
struments as well as those with approximate pitches (such as high, medium,
and low) blend in with the definite pitches around them in the orchestra, pick­
ing up fundamentals that make them consonant contributors to the chord and
giving the lie to the notion that nonpitched percussion instruments are simply
"noisemakers."
Today, electronic techniques are used to amplify, distort, or synthesize many

En sem ble

436

The Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

F R O M L E F T T O R IG H T , A R O U N D T A B L E : b o n g o s , t i m b a l e s , s t e e l d r u m ,
T E M P L E B L O C K S , A N D C R O T A L E S ; O N T A B L E : S L E IG H B E L L S ,
T A M B O U R IN E , F IN G E R C Y M B A L , W O O D B L O C K S , C A S T A N E T S , W O O D E N
S H A K E R , S L IT D R U M , G U IR O , A U T O H O R N , T IN W H IS T L E , F L E X A T O N E ,
M A R A C A S , S L A P S T IC K , B E L L T R E E , A N V IL , T R IA N G L E , W H IS T L E S , C L A V E S ,
S A N D P A P E R B L O C K S , C O W B E L L S , M U S IC A L S A W , A N D V IB R A S L A P ; B E H IN D
T A B L E : W IN D C H IM E S (M E T A L A N D G L A S S ).

percussion instruments or to sample their sounds, as in the works by Larry
Austin (Life Pulse Prelude), William Bolcom {Session IV), Michael Daugherty
(Metropolis Symphony), Mario Davidovsky (Synchronisms No. 6), and Donald Erb
(Klangfarbenfunk, with electronic rock instruments).
Even the most recently invented instruments, unless they are electronically
manipulated, are related to others in the percussion section by the material of
which they are constructed, the manner in which they are played, or whether
they are pitched or nonpitched. We shall briefly describe each instrument, giv­
ing more in-depth treatment to those most commonly used in the symphony or­
chestra, band, or wind ensemble, and present its method of performance. Then
we will show its notation and basic playing characteristics and techniques. An
extensive list of works that use a great variety of percussion instruments is in­
cluded at the end of the chapter, and an exhaustive list of books on these instru­
ments can be found in the Appendix B.
One word of caution before proceeding with our discussion. Many percus­
sion instruments, especially the pitched idiophones that are struck with mallets,
are manufactured in various sizes and therefore have different ranges. The com­
poser should always choose the size he or she needs and leave the procuring of
the proper instrument to the performing organization. Within reason, percus­
sionists are usually most happy to oblige the composer.

T h e P e r c u s s io n

e n sem b le

IN S T R U M E N T S O F D E F IN IT E PITCH

Idiophones
Idiophones produce their sound by the vibration of the entire body of the instru­
ment. Triangles, cymbals, wood blocks, and so on are such instruments.
However, some—marimbas, vibraphones, and chimes—are constructed of sev­
eral vibrating bodies combined into one instrument, such as the many keys on a
vibraphone or tubes on the chimes. In order to produce a sound on an idiophone, a number of techniques may be employed: they may be struck, scraped,
shaken, or stroked.

Mallet Instruments
Xylophone (Xyl.); X ilofono (I t .); Xylophoti (G er .).
The xylophone
was the first mallet instrument to find a permanent place in the orchestra. It con­
sists of a set of wooden bars of varying lengths arranged in the form of a piano
keyboard. Until recently, the xylophone had no resonators below its wooden
bars. Today most of them have these resonators to give added body to the very
dry, hard, brittle sound of the instrument. The single notes have a very sharp ar­
ticulation and very little sustaining power. If a note is to be sustained, the player
must roll it with two mallets. The most successful passages are therefore rapid
or single notes, which give a sharp edge of brilliance to similar passages played
by other instruments in the orchestra at the same time. These effects are like
sharp pizzicati. Trills, arpeggios, and glissandi are also extremely effective.
Xylophone parts are notated on a single staff in the treble clef. The instru­
ment sounds an octave higher than written. Some composers prefer to notate it
at actual pitch, but if this procedure is followed, a word to that effect should ap­
pear at the beginning of the score. There are several models of the instrument
with the following ranges:
E X A M P L E 12-3. Range

The model with the range labeled number 2 is the most common and is often
called the standard size. However, since the other two models exist, composers
have been able to write works calling for extended ranges. If models 1 and 3 are
unavailable for some reason, the player can compensate by transposing the
notes not found on a given instrument into another octave.
Usually the xylophonist uses only two mallets, one in each hand. Ebonite,
hard rubber or plastic, and on occasion hard wooden mallets are used for loud
playing, but for the upper register hard rubber mallets are not as effective. For
soft playing, mallets whose heads are made of yam are used. The instrument is
most brilliant and piercing in the top register, but has great power to cut
through the orchestra at all registers if the right mallets are used. Although the
composer should specify the type of mallets by the words hard, medium, or soft

CD-ROM
C D -5
X Y LO P H O N E

437

438

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

for all mallet instruments, the actual type and construction material of the mal­
let should be left to the choice and discretion of the performer.
EXAMPLE 12-4 * Xylophone

C D -4/T R. 6 1

Quite fast

1st tim e f

using hard mallets

2nd tim e

pp using s o ft m allets

*If this example appeared in an actual piece, the composer would have to give the performer time to
change mallets before calling for a repetition.

Ш

A D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S T U D Y

Gershwin, Porgy and Bess, beginning
Holst, The Planets, "Uranus," mm. 26-40 and again from (У] to [|]
Mahler, Symphony No. 6, first movement
Saint-Sa«\s, Camaval des animaux, "Fossiles"
Saint-Sa^s, Danse macabre
Stravinsky, Petrushka, First Tableau, Russian Dance, 13 mm. after (42]
(xylophone and piano)
C D -R O M

C D -5
M A R IM B A

Marimba (Mar.); M a rim b a p h o n (G er.).
The marimba is a direct de­
scendant of the xylophone and looks very much like its ancestor. Composers
have written extensively for this instrument only since 1950, but it is now coming
into its own as part of the contemporary orchestra. The marimba's rosewood
bars, also arranged keyboard fashion, are of course graduated, but thinner,
longer, and wider than the xylophone's, and the resonators have always been
part of its construction. The playing technique is exactly like the xylophone's, but
the marimba's mellower, deeper sound has generated a different kind of music.
The size and range of the marimba is fairly standard (although the range of
some marimbas goes down to A2 or even F2), and there are no transposition
problems since it sounds as written. It has the same four-octave compass as the
xylophone, although it sounds an octave lower. The music can be notated on
one or two staffs, in either the treble or bass clef.
example

12-5. Range

The lower register of this instrument is unique and especially beautiful; in
the higher registers, the marimba's tone resembles the xylophone's.
The most successfully used mallets for the marimba are those made of yarn
or soft rubber. Most marimba players use two mallets in each hand (a few even

T h e P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e

manipulate three in each hand), which makes it rather easy to roll the larger
chords characteristic of the marimba repertoire.
e x a m p l e 1 2 -6 . Marimba

Vibraphone (Vib.); Vibrafono (I t .); Vibraphon (G er .). VC^3 The vibra­
phone is essentially an American invention, vaguely related to the glockenspiel
because of its metal bars. It is the only mallet instrument that uses vibrato or
tremolo produced by an electrically driven series of fans located on top of the
resonator tubes.
There are three sizes of vibraphones, the first and second of which are avail­
able in most professional groups; the third size is rare, and you should avoid
writing for it.
exam p le

1 2 -7 .

Range (sounds as written)

The graduated metal bars are arranged in keyboard fashion and can be
played with the motor on or off. If the motor is off, there is no added vibrato,
and the tone sounds very much like a struck tuning fork—pure and metallic,
with a limited sustaining time. When the motor is on, the pitch vibrates and
comes alive with a great deal of sustaining time. The motor's speed can be con­
trolled so that a tone can vibrate very slowly or very quickly. You should give
precise instructions regarding the motor—off, on, speed—in both the score and
part.
Another device that helps sustain and then dampen the pitch is a pedal op­
erated by the foot. When it is depressed, the tones ring; when it is released, the
pitches are dampened. The composer should indicate any intentions for the use
of this pedal by writing l.v. ("let vibrate") over a note or chord and show how
long it is to be sustained. Chords of four or even six notes are possible; trills,
glissandi, and fast passages are, of course, as effective on the vibraphone as on
the xylophone and marimba; however, the nonrolled sustained pitches or
chords give this instrument its unique sound.
A variety of mallets is available, including hard and medium cord mallets as
well as rubber mallets. Plastic and wooden mallets are used rarely, if ever, but
yam mallets are common for soft passages, and wire brushes are very effective
in glissando effects.

CD-4/TR. 62

C D -R O M

cd-5

V IB R A P H O N E

439

440

The S tudy

CD-4/TR. 6 3
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p le

1 2 - 8 . Vibraphone

Scherzando

-L

l

1st tim e m otor on (medium speed)
2nd tim e m otor o ff

(sim .)

Two newer techniques can be achieved on the vibraphone, xylophone, and
marimba. In the first, called "dead stroking" or "dead sticking," the player
strikes the bar and then leaves the mallet oft the instrument. This action gives a
nonvibrant (muffled staccato) color and is especially useful when one of these
instruments is featured as soloist or is sparingly accompanied. The following ex­
ample is played on the marimba.
CD-4/TR. 6 3
INDEX 2 / 0 : 5 5

e x a m p le

1 2 -9 .

"Dead Stroking"

J^s “dead stroke*

Very slowly

5 5

Mar.
with
soft
mallets

*

—

5 9
5-

C D -R O M

C D -5
BOW ED
V IB R A P H O N E

C D -4fl-R . 6 3
INDEX
1 :1 5

31

—
^

j

In the second, performed mainly on the vibraphone, the player rubs the hairs of a
cello-or bass bow on the end of the key, producing a very eerie sound. This tech­
nique is especially effective with the motor on and the sustaining pedal depressed.
e x a m p le

1 2 - Ю . Cello Bow on Vibraphone

Slowly
arco
pedal depressed

-

1st tim e m o to r on
2nd tim e m o tor o ff

:4J a d d i t i o n a l p a s s a g e F O R S T U D Y
E. Zwilich, Symphony No. 1, second movement
C D -R O M

C D -5
G L O C K E N S P IE L

Glockenspiel (Glsp.); Campanelli (I t .); Jeu de timbres (F r .); G lockenspiel
(G er .). GC^ The German name for orchestra bells is the one most commonly
used. The glockenspiel consists of two rows of steel bars arranged like a key-

TH E P E R C U S S IO N E N SE M B L E

board. These highly tempered steel bars are mounted on a frame and attached
to a portable case. It is the oldest of all the mallet percussion instruments, and
we find numerous passages for it in nineteenth-century music.
It is a transposing instrument always sounding two octaves above the writ­
ten pitch unless otherwise specified, but some composers (Schoenberg, for one,
in his Five Pieces for Orchestra) insist on notating it at pitch. The glockenspiel
comes in only one size.
e x a m p l e 12- 11. Range

This instrument is usually played with only two mallets, although some per­
formers use a two-mallets-per-hand technique. The glockenspiel is the only in­
strument for which a brass mallet should be used. This gives the loudest and
most sonorous results. Other mallets, made of wood, plastic, or medium rubber,
give less of a ringing and more of a "clicking" sound, whereas the harder yam
mallets enable the performer to play quite softly. The glockenspiel has the
power to be heard above a whole tutti orchestra, especially in its upper register,
and even though it has the capacity to sustain pitches longer than the xylophone
and the marimba, the player can slow the process of decay and add a bit of vi­
brato by waving the hand back and forth close to the bars after they are struck.
e x a m p l e 12- 12. Glockenspiel

C D -4/ T R . 6 4

Moderate

1st tim e
2nd tim e f

Ш A D D ITIO N A L P ASSAG E FOR S TU D Y
Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Act Ш, Scene 5, Waltz (glockenspiel, flute, oboe)
C him es (Chm.); C am patte (It.); Je u d e c lo c h e s OFr.); G locken (G er.).

The chimes of the orchestra are often called tubular bells. They are a series of
cylindrical'chromium plated brass tubes of varying lengths that are hung on a
wooden or metal rack and arranged chromatically. Some come in sets of eigh­
teen, but most American orchestral tubular bells consist of twenty bells. They
sound as written.
e x a m p l e

1 2 - 1 3 . Range

The sound simulates that of a church bell and has the same "out-of-tune"
quality. The set has a sustaining pedal, which the player operates with the right
foot. Chimes are effective in soft as well as loud passages. If a soft sound is de-

C D -R O M

C D -5
C H IM ES

441

442

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

sired, the player uses yam mallets or rawhide mallets covered with cloth. For
louder sounds rawhide mallets without a cloth are used; these actually look
more like a hammer than a mallet. Faster passages convey the impression of
many church bells ringing at once, especially if the sustaining pedal is de­
pressed. The glissando is also practical but should not be overused. It is good
policy not to write more than two simultaneous pitches at once, although some
composers have asked for two players, each of whom plays two notes to form a
four-note chord.
CD-4/TR. 6 5

e x a m p le

l

1 2 - 1 4 . Chimes

Slowly

Fed.

ЩA D D IT IO N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S T U D Y
Holst, The Planets, "Saturn," end
Musorgsky-Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition, "The Great Gate of Kiev," end
Puccini, Tosca, Acts I and II
Wagner, Parsifal, final scene
C D -R O M

C D -5
CR O TA LES

Crotales (Crot.); Crotali ( I t .); Zimbeln (Ger.). -л- Crotales, sometimes re­
ferred to as antique cymbals, are a set of small metal discs, three to five inches in
diameter. They can be mounted on a wooden board shaped like a piano key­
board or held by a leather strap. A metal mallet is frequently used to play them,
but when hand held, they can also be struck together like cymbals. Crotales ac­
tually sound very similar to the glockenspiel, particularly when struck by a
metal mallet, but have a less piercing, more diffuse sound when struck together.
These pitched discs should not be confused with finger cymbals, which are
idiophones of indefinite pitch. Crotales are thicker and are timed in a chromatic
scale. As far as available pitches are concerned, two kinds of crotales exist. The
lower set, which is rare, ranges from middle С to B4. The more popular set con­
tains the pitches from C5 to C6. As on the glockenspiel, all pitches sound two oc­
taves higher than notated.
e x a m p le

12-15. Range

less available
set

A metal mallet is used for best effect; wooden and plastic models can also be
used, although they do not have the same sustaining power. Plastic and
medium rubber mallets are often used for softer effects. The player will some­
times wave a hand over the disc to sustain the sound; also, when the discs are
held by their leather handles after they have been manually struck together,
they can be shaken to keep the sound alive.

T H E P E R C U S S IO N EN SEM BLE

12 -ie. Crotales

e x a m p le

443

CD-4/TR. 66
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

Rather slowly
Crot.

Like the keys of the vibraphone, each of the discs on the crotales can be
bowed with a cello or bass bow, which produces an eerie but piercing sound.
e x a m p le

CD-ROM
C D -S
B O W E D C R O TA LES

1 2 - 1 7 . Cello Bow on Crotales

Slowly
arco

_____

Steel Drums (Steel Dr.). This is a misnomer, for a steel drum is not a drum
at all, but the top portion of a large oil can—a metal head on a metal shell. It is a
beautiful-sounding instrument of Caribbean origin. The top is heated until it is
slightly concave; then it is incised into sections, each of which is tuned to a dif­
ferent pitch by hammering to the appropriate indentation. The sound, which re­
sembles a metallic, ringing marimba, is produced by striking the different
pitches or sections with a soft mallet. A number of these instruments are usually
played by a group of players called a steel band. One may play the melody
while the others provide the harmony. Not too many composers have as yet
availed themselves of this instrument, except to invoke folk life in the
Caribbean.
e x a m p l e

1 2-1 e. Steel Drums

Happily

Shaken or Stroked Instruments
The musical saw, flexatone, and crystal glasses all have a kind of "elec­
tronic" sound and have been very successfully used since World War П by such
composers as Crumb, Schwantner, Mayuzumi, Kagel, and HaubenstockRamati.
Musical Saw (Saw); Sega cantante (I t .); Lam e musicale (Fr .); Singende Sage
For a long time this was a folk instrument made from an ordinary
carpenter7s hand saw. Now it is manufactured with a finely tuned steel blade,
without teeth, fixed to a wooden handle. The instrument is held between the
knees; the left hand holds the extremity of the blade, while a violin bow is
drawn across the edge to produce the sound. The player has no fingering to fall
back on; he or she simply curves the blade in a certain way to obtain the pitches.
(G er .).

C D -4/TR. 6 7

444

T he S tu d y o f O rc h e s tr a tio n

exam ple

1 2 - 1 9 . Approximate Range (sounds as written)

There is a very pronounced vibrato to every pitch and a glissando between
all the pitches. The musical saw is most suited to singing, sustained lines, and
even though not as focused, the sound is very much like that of a bowed vibra­
phone with the motor tuned up to the highest degree of vibrato.
C D -4/ T R . 6 8
IN D EX 1 0 : 0 0

I

exam ple

1 2 - 2 0 . Musical Saw

Flexatone (Flex.); Flessatono (It.); Flexaton (Ger.).
This instrument
sounds very much like the musical saw, but works on a slightly different princi­
ple. A thin, triangular-shaped blade is fixed at its base into a metal frame with a
handle. The unattached end of the blade is near the handle, so it can be flexed by
the thumb to adjust intonation. Strips of steel spring are fixed to each side of the
blade with a soft bah fastened to each of the free ends. When the player shakes
the instrument, the ball strikes the blade and makes the sound, which is ad­
justed by the thumb. It is best not to specify exact pitches, but let the instrument
"fit into" the approximate ones. However, when pitches are notated, the player
will attempt to come as close to them as possible.
e x a m p l e i 2 - 2 1 . Approximate Range

The flexatone produces a high-pitched sound with much tremolo, although
single shorter sounds can also be produced.
C D -4/ T R . 6 8
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 5

exam ple

1 2 - 2 2 . Hexatone
►

Flex.

V.

fj

*

Crystal Glasses.
Crystal glasses are simple goblets of various sizes
made out of crystal, which produce beautifully pure pitches. They can be struck
but are more commonly stroked around the rim with wetted fingers to give
long, singing tones. The practice of using glasses as musical instruments is quite
old, going as far back as Gluck. A close relative, the glass harmonica, an instru­
ment made of glass bowls, was of great interest to Mozart, Haydn, and
Beethoven.
Some composers today, instead of requiring set pitches for the glasses, sim­
ply ask for low, medium, and high, or in the case of Haubenstock-Ramati's

T h e P e r c u s s io n e n s e m b l e

Symphonies de timbres, four glasses—soprano, alto, tenor, and bass. In addition to
glasses, porcelain bowls, glass bottles, and flasks have all been utilized.
example

1 2 - 2 3 . Crystal Glasses

C D -4 / T R . 6 9

Membranophones
Membranophones produce their sound by the vibration of a skin or membrane
tightly stretched and fastened over a resonating shell or tube. The resonator can
be open at one end (bongos, tambourine, and so on) or completely closed, as in
the timpani. Some membranophones, such as snare, tenor, and bass drum, have
two membranes. One of them is struck while the other vibrates "in sympathy."
Membranophones are usually struck with some kind of beater or by the hand to
produce the vibration.

Timpani (Timp.); Timbales (Fr.); Pauken (Ger.) 0
The oldest regular percussion members of the symphony orchestra are the
timpani or kettle drums. Until this century the total range of the timpani was

C D -RO M
C D -5
TIM PANI

S. Now, however, we have a series of interlocking drums that
give us a much larger range. Four sizes of timpani are commonly available in all
orchestras: 32-inch, 28-inch, 25-inch, and 23-inch; if a piccolo timpano, 21 inches in
diameter, is not available, a tuned tom-tom or roto tom may be used in its place.
example
32'

1 2 - 2 4 . Ranges
28-

25-

Until earlier in this century the tuning of the timpani was accomplished by
tightening or loosening the screws placed around the perimeter of the drum­
head, which controlled the tautness of the calfskin membrane. Much time was
needed to change the tuning of the instrument; therefore, only limited pitches
were assigned to the timpani. Today the drums are fully mechanical, with a foot
pedal on each drum that changes pitches quickly and easily, though most tim­
panists still carefully check the pitches, and often, when time permits, adjust the
drums manually. This innovation has greatly enhanced the function and poten­
tial of the instrument.
During the Classical period only two drums were commonly used in the or­
chestra, usually a 28-inch and a 25-inch. The role of the timpani was to
strengthen the tonic and dominant bass notes and participate in strong tutti pas­
sages, especially at climactic points or cadences. Occasionally timpani were

CD-RO M
C D -5
TU N IN G O F
TIM PANI

445

446

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tr a tio n

called for in quiet passages to create a special atmosphere, such as in the Haydn
"Drum Roll" Symphony. Not until Beethoven's time did the timpani become a
solo instrument. The standard coupling with the trumpets was still very preva­
lent in the symphonic scores of Haydn and Mozart, so that when Beethoven, in
his last two symphonies, called for the two timpani timed in an octave F, and in
the sardonic scherzo of the Ninth used solo timpani, it was quite a shocking in­
novation. Berlioz, who even used two or more sets of drums and two or more
players in some works, initiated a development in timpani writing that eventu­
ally expanded the timpani to three and then four or more drums in our own
time.
The timpani are extremely versatile. They can play single notes and rolls;
with the mechanical pedals, they can easily do glissandi. Single notes can be
slow or fast, and the dynamic range of the timpani is exceedingly great.
Usually, special timpani mallets are used. These come in hard, medium,
and soft varieties. Other mallets, such as wooden drumsticks, felt mallets, or
simply the handles of the timpani mallets, and so on, can be used for special
effects.
The timpani tone is affected not only by the kind of mallet used but also by
the place on the head where the mallet strikes the drum. Usually, the player
strikes the head about six inches in from the rim. A beautiful pianissimo can be
achieved by playing even closer to the rim. A very thick, thudlike sound that
obscures the pitch somewhat is obtained by hitting the center of the head.
Timpani can be muted by placing a cloth to cover part or all of the head.
Today, some composers have asked timpanists to place cymbals, tambourines,
maracas, and other percussion instruments on the head, letting them ring sym­
pathetically when the drum is struck. The side of the drum, called the bowl, as
well as the rim of the drum, is sometimes played with wooden sticks as a non­
pitched percussion instrument.
The timpani part must be carefully prepared to show dynamics and the
exact duration of each note; for instance, where a roll or trill is to end, how long
a note may ring, and so on. A roll can be notated in one of two ways:
e x a m p l e

12-25.

Timpani Rolls

A longer roll should be notated:
e x a m p l e

12-26.

Longer Timpani Rolls

A tremolo on two different drums should be notated to indicate whether it is
measured or unmeasured.

t h e p e r c u s s io n

e x a m p l e

12-27.

en sem ble

Tremolo on Two Different Drums

measured

unm easured

Timp.

Timp.

Two or more notes can be played at the same time. This passage is possible
on a four-drum set:
e x a m p l e

12 - 2 8 .

Four Timpani

Tempo di Valse

CO-ROM
C D -Б

TIMPANI CHORDS

C D -4/T R . 7 0

(FtoE)

Timp.

ЩГ
It is advisable to mark changes in tuning, especially if it must be accom­
plished rather quickly. This is done in the following manner:
ex am p le

12- 2 9 . Marking Tuning Changes

Slowly

Bl-a

P

f

Ф

Here are some examples of timpani usage from the orchestral literature:
ex am p le

2gj

i 2 - 3 0 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 9, second movement, mm. 261-273

C D -4/T R. 7 1
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Presto

Timp.

p iu f

JT

268

ex am p le

12 - 3 1 . Berlioz, Symphonic fantastique, fourth movement, mm. 83-89

Allegretto

Timp.

447

C D -4/T R. 7 1
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 5

448

th e stu d y o f O rc h e stra tio n

e x a m p l e

C D -4/ T R . 7 1
IN D EX 3 / 0 : 3 3

12-32.

Bloch, Schelomo, mm. 170-171

Timp.

solo

m arc.
Я6 A D D I T I O N A L P A S S A G E S F O R S T U D Y

Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta, second and fourth movements
Bernstein, Jeremiah Symphony, second movement, mm. 288-301
Elgar, Enigma Variations, "Troyte," Presto
Hanson, Symphony No. 2, first movement, from [G] to the end
Harris, Symphony No. 3, mm. 421-425
Holst, The Planets, "Saturn," from [2] to the end (two sets of timpani)
Mahler, Symphony No. 1, third movement, beginning
Nielsen, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, at [35]
Sibelius, Symphony No. 1, third movement, m..4
Wagner, Siegfried, Funeral Music, opening

Roto Toms (R. Tom); Roto-tom-tom (It.); Tom-Tont-Spiel (Ger.)
An American manufacturer (Remo) recently developed a series of roto toms
(tom-toms) that can play specified pitches and are timed by manual turns of the
shell on a drum frame. It is quite possible to play a slow melody on them. These
drums come in seven sizes and have a pitch compass as follows:
EXAM PLE

12-33.

18'

Ranges

16-

14'

12*

Roto toms blend beautifully with all kinds of instruments but especially with
the timpani. They are now made with a resonator very much like a timpani
bowl, producing a sound quite compatible with that instrument but with
cleaner, more articulate pitches. In fact, the roto tom, which uses the same beat­
ers and playing techniques, greatly extends the potential range of the timpani.
This instrument can also create excellent contrast in repetitions of timpani pas­
sages at higher pitches. When scoring for timpani and roto toms in combination,
use a different-shape notehead for each instrument in the score to help the player
distinguish between the two instruments. The following notation is suggested:
Timpani: regular notation
Roto toms: ®

d

si

T h e P e r c u s s io n e n s e m b l e

e x a m p le 12-34 . Timpani and Roto Toms

Timp. and
Roto Toms

5

Older roto toms that do not have definite pitches are now obsolete, having
been replaced in most organizations by the drums described above. Some or­
chestras, however, still use them. These roto toms come in three sizes: 10-inch,
8-inch, and 6-inch, with the following ranges:
exa m ple

i 2 -3 5 .

Ranges

10 -

8"

6'

Like the Remo toms, these are timed by rotating the head clockwise to
tighten it and counterclockwise to relax it. The plastic heads are stretched over a
metal rim that is fastened to a base. Their sound is much drier than that of the
Remo toms and has much less sustaining quality than either the timpani or
Remo toms. All kinds of wooden sticks, wood, plastic, or rubber mallets, and
even cord mallets, are effective on them.

Chordophones
Chordophones produce their sound by the vibration of their strings. All chordo­
phones are tuned instruments. In the percussion section, the chordophones con­
sist of the cimbalom and the keyboard instruments, such as the piano,
harpsichord, harmonium, and organ, that are used as members of the modern
symphony orchestra rather than soloists. The sound of all these instruments,
produced when the strings are struck, is amplified by a resonator, which may be
a case, a board, a box, or a combination of these. The cimbalom, whose strings
are struck directly by the player with a leather or wooden mallet, will be cov­
ered in this chapter. Keyboard instruments, whose strings are activated by a
mechanism set in motion when the player depresses a key, will be discussed in
Chapter 13.
Cimbalom (Cimb.)
The cimbalom is the most highly developed of the ancient dulcimers. One
version of it is prominently featured in the folk music of Appalachia. Early in
the twentieth century the Hungarians adapted the cimbalom for use in the sym­
phony orchestra. The modem cimbalom is usually trapezoid shaped. It is laid
flat and struck on its metal strings in various ways with leather or wooden mal­
lets. It is similar to a piano in that it has a multiple of strings for each pitch, al­
though it has no keyboard. Often it is equipped with a foot-operated damper
pedal. The cimbalom has a compass of four octaves with all chromatic tones.

449

450

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e st r a t io n

e x a m p le

1 2 - З 6 . Range

The cimbalom has been used beautifully by Bart6k, Kodaly, and Stravinsky
in rapid and florid passages. As on the marimba, the notes to be sustained are
usually rolled, whether or not they are marked that way in the score.
exam p le

1 2 -37.

Kodcily, Hary Janos Suite, f i f t h movement, mm. 8 7 - 9 3

cresc.

X f sempre ben tenuto

j f sempre ben tenuto
j f sempre ben tenuto
J f sempre ben tenuto

T h e P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e
l.Solo

Today the cimbalom is used in highly developed art music by such composers
as Dutilleux, for instance in his L'Arbre des songes and in many of his other
works for strings.
A D D ITIO N A L PASSAGE FOR S TU D Y

Dutilleux, L'Arbre des songes, first movement especially

Aerophones
Aerophones produce their sound by the vibration of an air column within an en­
closed body. Woodwind and brass instruments are aerophones; in the percus­
sion section, all kinds of whistles, sirens, and machines (like the wind machine)
are included in this category. Although all have definite pitch, their pitch is not
always specified—except perhaps for the whistles.

Whistles
Whistles of all kinds are used for various effects, especially in scores com­
posed during the last few decades. The kind of whisde required should be care­
fully indicated in the score: bird whistle, police whistle, slide whistle, tin
whistle, train whistle, and so on. Tunes for the whisde are often exactly notated,
as in the next example for tin whistle, from Copland's Billy the Kid:

451

452

T h e S tu d y

of

O rc h e s tr a tio n
e x a m p le

C D -4/T R. 7 4

1 2 - 3 6 . Copland, Billy the Kid, "Street in a Frontier Town," mm. 1-4
Moderate

i

Hr
Whistle

If no specific pitches are desired, there should at least be an explanation of ex­
actly what the whistle is to do.
All kinds of whistles, including tin whistles, have been popularized by
James Galway. In his flute concerto Pied Piper Fantasy, which was written for
Galway, John Corigliano asks the soloist at the climax at the end of the piece to
guide children playing tin whistles into the concert hall and onto the stage.
В

A D D I T I O N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S T U D Y

A. Kemis, New Era Dance (whistles and synthesizer)
J. Williams, Far and Away (whistles, pipes, Irish harp, two fiddles)

INSTRUM EN TS O F INDEFINITE PITCH
Idiophones
M etal
Cymbals (Cymb.); P iatti (It .), Cymbales (F r .); Becken (G er .)
Pair of Cymbals "IF
Suspended Cymbal
Hi-Hat Cymbals =4=

or

The cymbal, an old Turkish instrument, is a curved metal plate with a raised
cup or bell in the center. The three parts of the cymbal are as follows:
bow

cup (dome)

edge (rim)

Often a composer or orchestrator will specify exactly which part of the cymbal
needs to be struck to create a particular effect.
Cymbals are made in at least three sizes, but if a composer asks for one or
more different sizes from the norm the percussionist can usually find them. The
standard sizes are 10 to 14 inches, 15 to 18 inches, and 19 to 24 inches.

CD-ROM
C D -5
PA IR O F C YM BA LS

Crash Cymbals (Cymb.). Pairs of cymbals are held by leather straps fas­
tened at the cup and played using three basic methods:
1. They can be clashed together forte and then held high over the player's
head. If the stroke is fast, they can be clashed and immediately damped

T H E P E R C U SSIO N E N SEM BL E

453

against the player's chest. Soft strokes, as heard in the example below, are
very effective.
2. One cymbal can be swished across the other to give a hissing effect.
3. A roll can be created by rubbing the plates together with a fast rotary mo­
tion, although this does not come off very satisfactorily.
e x a m p l e

12-39.

Pair of Cymbals

C D -4/TR. 7 5
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Moderate
swish

Cymb.
in hand

2nd time p

Suspended Cymbals (Susp. Cymb.). A cymbal can be suspended from a
strap on a stand and struck with a wooden drumstick for a well-articulated
stroke, or marimba yarn mallets or wire brushes for softer effects. These sticks
and mallets can be used to effect rolls on the various sizes of suspended cym­
bals. A triangle beater is sometimes used to strike the instrument or scrape it.
This gives a truly metallic sound. Since differences in the sound result from
striking or rolling at the edge, the bow, or the cup, it is best to specify the exact
point of contact; otherwise, the performer will usually strike or roll toward the
edge. A suspended cymbal can also be bowed.
exam ple

1 2 - 4 0 . Suspended Cymbals

CD-ROM
C D -5
SU SPEN D ED
C Y M B A LS

C D -4/TR. 7 5
IND EX 2 / 0 : 3 6

3 Susp.
Cymb.

® take brushes

take bow

with stick

Hi-Hat Cymbals (Hi-Hat). This instrument consists of two cymbals facing
each other, mounted vertically on a metal rod and crashed together by a foot
pedal. When crashed, they produce the dry, nonsustained dick typical of drum
set parts, or a slightly clattery, soft crash when allowed to vibrate. Hi-hat cym­
bals are not often used in the orchestra unless a composer wishes to simulate the
drum set of jazz combos.
exam ple

1 2 -4 1 . Hi-HatCymbals

Sizzle Cymbal (Sizzle Cymb.). This newest member of the cymbal family
comes in a variety of sizes and is played with the same beaters as for the sus­
pended cymbal. The sizzle cymbal is also suspended by a strap or attached with
a metal clamp to a vertical rod stand. It produces a sizzling, hissing sound when

CD-ROM
C D -S
HI-HAT C Y M B A LS

C D -4/TR. 7 5
IN D EX 3 / 1 :3 1

CD-ROM
C D -5
S iz z l e c y m b a l

454

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

struck or rolled because it has holes drilled around its circumference that are
filled with little metal rivets. When the instrument is played, these rivets bounce
and produce a unique sound.
C D -4/ T R . 7 5
IN D EX 4 / 1 : 4 7

1 2 - 4 2 . Sizzle Cymbal

exam ple
Sizzle
Cymb.

<?

&

p — « ---------------------------------------— f ---------

1st tim e hard stick
2nd tim e brushes

Chinese Cymbals (Chinese Cymb.). Some composers—Chen Yi, Tan Dun,
and Bright Sheng in particular—have used what we call Chinese cymbals. These
cymbals have inverted edges and sound like high tam-tams.
CD -RO M
C D -5
F IN G E R C YM BA LS

Finger Cymbals (Fing. Cymb.); Cimbalini (It.); Cym bales digitales (Fr.);
Fingerzimbeln (G er .). Finger cymbals consist of a pair of small metal plates
about two inches in diameter, having no definite pitch. They can be played in
two different ways:
1. When two are struck together they produce a high metallic sound not unlike
that of the triangle;
2. When one is struck separately with a metal, wooden, or plastic beater it pro­
duces a definite but unspecified pitch. This sound, however, should not be
confused with that of the different sized crotales, which because they are man­
ufactured with much higher caliber materials have definite, specified pitches.
Either of the finger cymbals' playing techniques produces tones that easily
blend with any pitches surrounding them.

C D -4/ T R . 7 6

exa m ple

12-43.

Finger Cymbals
with metal beater

Fing.
Cymb.

These cymbals have been used as rhythm instruments in contemporary perfor­
mances of medieval music.
C D -RO M
C D -5
T R IA N G LE

Triangle (Trgl.); Triangolo (It .); Triangel (G er .). A The triangle, most
likely of Turkish origin, is one of the oldest nonpitched percussion instruments
in the orchestra. It was favored as an instrument in early opera, and from the
time of Haydn and Beethoven it became a regular member of the symphony or­
chestra (see especially Example 14-14, measure 14ff. from the Finale to
Beethoven's Symphony No. 9). It is a round metal rod bent into the shape of a
triangle. Several sizes are available; three basic ones—6 inches, 8 inches, and 10
inches-—give a pitch gradation of high, mddium, and low.
The triangle has a crystalline, pure, high timbre that can be used as a solo
sound, but in combination with other instruments it gives luminescence to a
large orchestral chord. It is played with a small metal beater and can be struck

- &

th e

P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e

or rolled. A roll or trill is produced by striking two sides of the triangle in one of
the corners. Softer sonorities are really more effective than loud ones, which
tend to get tiresome and obtrusive. The instrument blends beautifully with
strings and winds, especially in the upper register, but also renders good con­
trast to bass instruments. It has a good sustaining time, and the l.v. (let vibrate)
symbol is often used in its notation. You should be careful in scoring for trian­
gle, however, to specify exactly how long the sound should last.
1 2 - 4 4 . Triangle

e x a m p le

C D -4/ T R . 7 7

Slowly
T rg L

E
f

pp

n f^ = ~ p

Anvil (Anv.); Incudine (I t .); Enclume (Fr.); Amboss (G er.). This instrument
simulates the sound of a blacksmith's anvil. It was used quite a bit in the late
nineteenth century, especially by Wagner in Das Rheingold. Numerous twentieth-century composers, such as Varese, Bloch, Copland, Foss, and Rouse, also
have written for it. It is a large steel block struck by a metal hammer. Any simi­
lar object can be substituted for it if an orchestra does not provide the manufac­
tured anvil; some percussionists have even used a small section of railroad
track.
e x a m p le

1 2 -4 5 .

Anvil

CD-ROM
C D -5
A NVIL

C D -4/T R. 7 8
IND EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Marchlike

г*м

Anv.

fr

W

Cowbells (Cowb.); Cencerro (It .); Sonnailles (Fr.); Kuhglocken (G er .). A
In Europe the real thing is frequently used, especially for such passages as in
Mahler's Symphony No. 6, first movement (measures 198-216). They are used
in Latin American dance bands as much as if not more than in symphony or­
chestras. In this country cowbells are manufactured in various sizes from about
three to ten inches, have a somewhat triangular shape, and are usually bronzeplated. The pitch of the low, medium, and high sizes does not vary greatly.
They are struck with a snare drumstick and give a clanging sound. In the fol­
lowing example, the cowbells, in four different sizes, are distributed on the
score in terms of relative height of pitch:
e x a m p le

1 2 -4 6 .

Cowbells

Quite fast

Some twentieth-century composers have asked for "pitched" cowbells (Mes­
siaen, Schwantner, Crumb, Tower), which are now available.

C D -R O M
C D -5
CO W BELLS

C D -4/ T R . 7 8
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 4

455

456

T he S tudy

o f

I

O r c h e s t r a t io n

A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E S FOR S TU D Y

Tan Dun, Giiimalia (marimba, six tuned cowbells, two harps, amplified guitar)
J. Tower, Sequoia, beginning (celesta, piano, and timed cowbells)
C D -R O M
C D -5
T A M -T A M

Tam-Tam КЗ* and Other Gongs. © Gongs can be divided into high,
medium, and low pitched instruments. Although there has been much discus­
sion about "exact" tuning of gongs, it must be said that even the best ear will
have problems identifying the fundamental pitch of most of them. Nevertheless,
a differentiation should be made between the nonpitched gong family, of which
the tam-tam is the largest member, and the authentic Asian gongs, which do
have specific pitches.
The tam-tam, usually the largest of the gongs and therefore the lowest
sounding, was the most common in the symphony orchestra until recently. Like
most gongs, it is made of a heavy metal; but unlike most gongs, which are usu­
ally played with a timpani mallet or a slightly thicker beater, the tam-tam is
struck with its own large device called a tam-tam beater.
1 2 - 4 7 . Gongs

C D -4/TR. 7 9

EXAM PLE

C D -R O M
C D -5
W IN D C H IM E S

Wind Chimes (W. Ch.). TT There are three kinds of wind chimes:
1. bamboo wind chimes
2. glass wind chimes
3. metal wind chimes
All wind chimes are based on the same principle: the suspending of various
sizes of bamboo sticks, pieces of glass, wood, or metal, as in a mobile. Generally,
the chimes are struck by the hand and jangled until they are stopped by the
hand. Bamboo and wooden chimes emit a rather small, hollow, brittle, or
rustling sound; they can also be stroked by a small wooden stick or grasped to­
gether suddenly to emit a dry, sudden, and louder sound similar to "chock."
Wooden chimes are pitched much higher than those made of bamboo. Glass
chimes emit a very high, delicate, soft jingling sound; metal chimes sound a bit
more blatant yet not very loud. The following passage demonstrates the sound
of all the different wind chimes:

C D -4/T R. 8 0

e x a m p l e

W. Ch.:
Wooden
Glass
Metal

1 2 - 4 8 . Chimes

TH E P e r c u s s i o n E n s e m b l e

Sleigh Bells; Grelots (Fr!); Sonagli (It.); Schellen (Ger.)
bells are held in one or both hands and shaken.
e x a m p l e 12-49. Sleigh Bells

457

C D -R O M
C D *S
S L E IG H B E L L S

C D -4/T R . 8 1
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Happily
Sleigh Belle

8
Bell Tree. T A metal beater is used to stroke the small bells on the tree in
an upward or downward motion; as specified.

о

exa m ple

1 2 - 5 0 . Bell Tree

C D -R O M
C D -5
b e ll T r ee

C D -4/T R . 8 1
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 7

Slowly

Brake Drum (Brake Dr.). CD Automobile brake drums come in various
sizes. They are played with drum sticks or brushes, like any other drum. Metal
plates are often substituted for brake drums because of their more ringing
sound; see especially Copland's Connotations (at the end), his Symphony No. 3,
and Rouse's Phaelon (toward the end).

C D -R O M
C D -5
B R A K E DRUM

e x a m p l e 12 - 5 1 . Brake Drum

Thunder Sheet. Ч-1 This large sheet of metal suspended on a stand may be
struck with a beater or shaken by hand.

C D -R O M
c d -5

TH UN D ER SH EET

e x a m p l e 12 - 5 2 . Thunder Sheet

Wooden
Wood Blocks (W. Bl.); B locci di legno cinese or Cassetina (It.); Blocs de bois
(Fr.); H olzbldcke (Ger.). 1=] Wood blocks, rectangular pieces of hard wood,
come in sets of graduated sizes, from three to five each. When several wood
blocks are called for, they are either mounted or placed in a set on a table or a
stand. Even though they are considered nonpitched instruments, the different­
sized blocks produce a spectrum of indefinite pitches from low (the largest
block) to high (the smallest block). Their sound is incisive, penetrating, and very
dry. Drumsticks, as well as marimba, wooden, plastic, or rubber mallets are all
effective beaters. If only one wood block is used, it can be held in one hand and

C D -R O M
C D -5
W O O D BLOCKS

458

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

struck with a mallet held in the other hand. These blocks are very apt at playing
a single secco sound, rolls, or fast passages.
C D -4/T R. 8 3
IND EX t / 0 : 0 0

E X A M P L E 1 2 - 5 3 . Wood Blocks

Tempo di Valse

4 -1
f

1st tim e
2nd tim e p p

CD-ROM
C D -5
TEM PLE BLO C K S

C D -4/TR. 8 3
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 2 5

Temple Blocks (T. Bl.); Blocci di legno coreano (I t .); Tem ple-blocs (F r .);
Tem pel-Bldcke (G er .). ® Temple blocks are a graduated series of five clam­
shaped wooden blocks mounted on a stand. They are usually lacquered red and
are of Asian origin. The technique of playing and the beaters are the same as for
the wood blocks, but they sound more resonant, more mellow, and more hol­
low. Because temple blocks are more fragile than wood blocks, hard mallets
must be used carefully, and hard rubber or plastic mallets and wooden sticks
should be avoided.
The music for temple blocks is also similar to that for wood blocks, with
secco single strokes, rolls, and fast passages predominating.
e x a m p l e

1 2 - 5 4 . Temple Blocks

1st time f
2nd tim e p

CD-ROM
C D -5
C LA V ES

C D -4/TR. 8 4
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Claves.
This instrument of Latin American origin consists of two
cylindrical pieces of hard wood, each approximately one inch in diameter and
approximately six inches long. One of the claves is lightly cradled by the fingers
of one hand and struck incisively by the other clave held in the other hand. The
cupped hand acts as a resonator. The sound is like that made when striking the
highest wood block very hard, but it has more resonance and carries a certain
"ping" (a term that some percussionists use to characterize this sharp articula­
tion). Claves afe usually used to play ostinati (the main underlying rhythm) in
Latin American rumbas, congas, and sambas, but have also been used in orches­
tral music to reinforce secco chords or as an alternative to wood-or temple-block
sounds.
e x a m p le

1 2 - 5 5 . Claves

f
C D -R O M
C D -5
C A S TA N E TS

Castanets (Cast.).
Castanets are probably of Mediterranean origin
and have been in existence for hundreds of years. Some Spanish and Italian
composers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries wrote concertos for cas­
tanets and strings. They have often been used in the orchestra to suggest Spain
or Spanish subjects, as in the famous "Seguidilla" from Bizet's Carmen. Today,
composers use them to emphasize rhythms or to reinforce sharp attacks.

T h e P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e

The instrument is made of two small, hardwood, spoon-shaped shells that
are struck together. There are three kinds of castanets:
1. Hand castanets: usually two pairs, one held in each hand. These require con­
siderable skill to play and are rarely found in the orchestra.
2. Paddle castanets: a pair of castanets are mounted, one on each side of a
wooden paddle. These are easy to play and can have a very loud dynamic.
3. Concert castanets: castanets that are mounted on a board. The lower castanet
is stationary and connected to the upper one by a spring. The upper castanet
is clicked against the lower with a finger or a drumstick. This newest type of
castanet is the one most commonly used in the orchestra.
e x a m p l e

1 2 - 5 6 . Castanets

C D -4/T R . 8 4
IND EX 2 / 0 : 1 2

Cast.

Sand Block or Sandpaper Block (Sand Bl.). This instrument consists of two
small blocks whose bottom side is covered with sandpaper. The sandpaper sur­
faces are brought together and rubbed against each other, sounding like a softshoe dance. They can produce separate, short, coarse strokes, rhythmic
passages, or rolls. If you want an especially harsh sound, you should specify
that the sandpaper be especially coarse. If the opposite effect is desired, request
fine or medium sandpaper.
E X A M P L E 1 2 - 5 7 . Sand Blocks

CD-'4/TR. 8 5
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

4r*

Maracas (Mrcs.). О— The maracas, another Latin American instrument,
usually come in pairs, although if they are played in a non-South American
context, one usually suffices. The instrument is made of a gourd or wood or
plastic shell filled with pebbles or seeds. It may be shaken or slowly twirled
(stirred); the latter is very effective as a pianissimo roll (solo). Simply tapping the
maraca with one hand to produce the effect of a short note is also possible. In
Latin American dances maracas usually play ostinato patterns, but in orchestral
contexts tl\e sizzle of the maraca has always had a special charm.
e x a m p l e

1 2 - 5 8 . Maracas

shake

=T i / r

tap

Г Ilf *34^

CD-RO M
C D -5
SAN D BLO CKS

C D -R O M
C D -5
MARACAS

CD -4/TR. 8 5
IN D EX 2 / 0 : 1 3

1.
2.
shake
stirring both
^
-------------1
----------- l * = d
^ f f~ T f

/

’

II

Other South American instruments that sound similar to the maracas are the
chocallo, the kameso, the cabaza, and the rain stick.
Jawbone; Vibraslap. This Latin American instrument is related to the
maracas, since it also rattles. It looks like the jawbone of a donkey—in fact, it

c d -r o m

jawbone

459

460

T he S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

originally was just that, with teeth still in it. The player holds it in one hand
and strikes it toward the top with the fist of the other hand, making a sound
that resembles loose teeth rattling. Usually only single strokes are written for
this instrument, since each will buzz for a time commensurate with the force of
the blow.
CD-4/TR. 8 6
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

EXAMPLE

12 - 5 9 .

Jawbone

Jawbone

CD-ROM
C D -5
GUIRO

CD-4/TR. 8 6
INDEX 2 / 0 : 1 1

Guiro; R ape guiro (Fr.). C2TD This is a large gourd shaped like a bottle,
with a serrated side on which the player scrapes back and forth with a wooden
stick or scraper. It has been used a great deal in Latin American dance bands; in
addition, many orchestral composers have written for it instead of for the
European ratchet or rattle, or for the sandpaper blocks, which as a rule would
sound too soft in certain orchestral passages. Single strokes as well as rolls are
possible.
exam ple

12 - 60 . Guiro

Another South American instrument similar to the guiro is the Brazilian
reco-reco.
CD-ROM
CD -5
R A TC H ET

CD-4/TR. 8 7
INDEX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Ratchet (Ratch.); Raganella (It.); Erecelle (F r .); R atsche (G er .). "B
This
instrument simulates a child's ratchet. It is constructed of a grooved cylinder
and a hard tongue of wood or metal, held in a frame. When the teeth of the
cylinder are rotated against the tongue by a handle, they catch and make a loud
clacking sound. The instrument is best used for loud dynamic passages and for
rolls, since single strokes are risky and would work much better on the guiro.
exam ple

12 - 6 1 . Ratchet

Ж
CD-ROM
C D -5
SLA P STIC K

c d -4/t r . 8 7

Slapstick or Whip; Frusta (I t .); Fouet (F r .); Peitsche (G er .). In Europe this
instrument is usually called a whip, in America a slapstick. It is constructed of
two strips of thin hard wood tied together into a paddle held by a string. When
clapped together, the two pieces of wood produce a single very hard stroke.
This instrument is usually used to emphasize a sforzando.
exam ple

12 - 62 . Slapstick

INDEX 2 / 0 : 1 4

Jf
CD-ROM
C D -5
LOG DRUM

Log Drum (Log Dr.) 0 and Slit Drum (Slit Dr.). 0 These are Mexican
Indian and African instruments, respectively. The log drum is a hollowed-out

T h e P e r c u ssio n E n s e m b l e

log plugged up at each end, with a slit made along the entire surface on one
side. Two tongues are cut into the log across the slit, dividing the wood into two
different lengths, producing two different pitches when the wood is struck on
the sides next to the tongue openings. Several sizes and thicknesses of the log
drum produce a spectrum of pitches; you can even specify well-defined pitches
on this instrument.
Slit drums are similar in construction, but look more manufactured. The
sound is produced by hard marimba mallets striking the drums on either side of
the slits. The intervallic relationships, depending on the thickness of the drum,
can be a 3rd or, more often, a perfect 4th or even a 5th. They can easily take the
place of wood or temple blocks, but will give a darker sound.
e x a m p le

1 2 - 6 3 . Log Drums a n d Slit Drums

C D - 4 /TR . 8 8

Fhst

Hammer; Holtzhammer (G er .). A hammer is sometimes called for (Mahler,
Symphony No. 6 and Rouse, Symphony No. 1), usually to strike either a piece of
wood or a metal plate. Often a large wooden box (sometimes as big as five feet
square) is constructed to be struck by the hammer, giving a tremendously loud
sound. A wooden or metal hammer is usually specified in the score.

Membranophones
Snare Drum (S. Dr.); Tamburo piccolo (It.); Caisse claire (Fr.); Kleine
Trommel (G er .)
^ 3 with snares; CZJ without snares
The snare or side drum has long been a member of the symphony orchestra,
and even longer in the opera orchestra. The instrument has two heads: the top,
or playing head, is called batter-, the bottom head, which has the snares (made of
cat gut, wire, or nylon) stretched across it, is called snare. The snare drum has a
switch on the side which, if loosened, shuts off the snares and makes the instru­
ment sound like a tom-tom. With the snares on, the instrument has a crisp,
sharp sound and is excellent for playing concise rhythmic patterns. There are
four basic strokes besides the single left-right stroke. In the first three, the grace
notes precede the accented note unless otherwise specified:
1. flam Jfj
2. drag J3«]
3. four-stroke ruff Ш J
4. roll J

or I

i |«h

The player may place a cloth on the batter to mute the instrument. You
should designate this effect as "cover head." Another effect that is used quite
frequently is the rim shot, a very sharp sound produced by placing one stick in
the middle of the head and rim and then hitting the stick with the other stick.

C D -R O M
CD-5
S N A R E DRUM

461

462

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

The instruction to the player should read: "rim shot," or the abbreviation
"r.sh."; recently, some composers have adopted Elliott Carter's symbol, V, but if
this is used it should be explained at the front of the score.
Wooden sticks are the normal beaters for the snare drum, although wire
brushes are used for soft effects, especially in jazz.
exam ple

C D -4/T R . 8 9
IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

12 - 6Д . Snare Drum

a.
Allegro

Jf
pp

1st tim e
2nd tim e

b.

CD-4ATR. 8 9
IN D EX 2 0 : 2 8

I

f
2nd tim e w ith out snares

For trills the notation ^ is preferred.
Ш

A D D ITIO NAL PASSAGE FOR S TU D Y

Nielsen, Clarinet Concerto (obbligato snare drum solo throughout)

C D -R O M
C D -S
T E N O R DRUM

Tenor Drum (Ten. Dr.); Cassa rullante (It.); Caisse roulante (Fr.);
Wirbeltrommel or Riihrtrommel (Ger.) Q
The tenor drum is found quite frequently in both bands and orchestras. It
has a deep, resonant sound and shares the same basic techniques as the snare
drum, although it has no snares. Wooden sticks serve as beaters, though tim­
pani mallets and marimba mallets can also be used effectively. Many of these
drums have a head on the bottom as well as on the top.

C D -4/T R . 9 0

EXAMPLE

12 - 6 5 .

Tenor Drum

Field Drum (Field Dr.)
This drum with snares is seldom used in orchestras. It has the same circum­
ference as the tenor drum but a deeper shell, and is therefore lower in pitch. The
field drum has a darker, less crisp sound than the snare drum and is played
with large snare drumsticks. The same techniques apply to both, however.

T h e P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e
1 2 - 6 6 . Field Drum

exam ple

C D -4/T R . 9 1

Steadily

Bass Drum (Bs. Dr.); Gran ca ssa (It.); G rosse caisse (Fr.); G rosse
Trom m el (Ger.)

C D -R O M

C D -5
B A S S DRUM

Because the bass drum has such tremendous power, it can easily drown out
the rest of the orchestra when fortissimo strokes or rolls are played on it.
Therefore, you must be careful when writing for it, and careful not to overuse its
powerful effects. The bass drum's response is a bit slower than that of the
smaller drums, but it is very effective in playing slow repeated notes as well as
fast, secco isolated strokes.
The instrument has two heads, both of which can be used for playing if the
instrument is standing upright on its side ( ® ). The bass drum can also be laid
flat ( 0 ) . It is effective in soft passages as
well as loud ones, adding tremendous weight to the percussion section in the
latter. It can begin or end a percussion passage with a single stroke (Copland,
Symphony No. 3 , second movement, beginning). It can also simulate distant
thunder, or evoke a feeling of impending doom with a pianissimo roll. In older
symphonic literature it was often used to depict war or belligerent hostility.
Usually the bass-drum player uses a mallet resembling a timpani mallet but
that is larger, softer, and with a little more felt on the head. Wooden sticks are
also used for strokes and rolls.
12 - 6 7 . Bass Drum Strokes

e x a m p le

c d ^4/t r . 9 2

IN D EX 1 / 0 : 0 0

Adagio

1st tim e / *
2nd tim e

p

e x a m p le

^

12-68. Bass Drum Strokes and Rolls

Happily

C D -4/T R . 9 2
IND EX 2 / 0 : 2 4

/C\

лГ
1st tim e w ith regular mallets
2nd tim e w ith w ood o f m allets

Tom-Toms □
These membranophones occupy a gray area between definite and indefinite
pitch, for tom-toms can be tuned to approximate pitches, if desired. They come
on two stands, each with a pair mounted on it, and are pitched from high to low
in four different voices. Tom-toms are best notated on the four spaces of the
staff to show this pitch differentiation. The drums with one head look like
smaller tenor drums. Their sound is crisp and articulate. Those with two heads,
which actually sound more like tenor drums, are most often used in jazz bands,
but if the composer so specifies they can be available in a symphony orchestra.

C D -R O M
C D -5
T O M -T O M S

463

464

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

They have greater sustaining power than the single-headed tom-toms and are
deeper and more somber in sound; some have said, however, that the two kinds
of tom-toms are interchangeable because listeners really cannot tell the differ­
ence between them.
Yam or cord mallets, or regular snare drumsticks, are the most common beat­
ers used. The playing technique is similar to that of the snare drum. Much of the
music written for tom-toms incorporates gestures written for wood blocks and
temple blocks, with which tom-toms often carry on a dialogue in the orchestra.
C D -4/ T R . 9 3

|

E X A M P L E 1 2 - 6 9 . Tom-Toms

Flist
4 Tom-Toms

2nd tim e

C D -R O M

C D-5
T IM B A L E S

pp

Timbales (Timb.); Timpanetti (It.); Timbales cubaines (Fr.); KubaPauken (Ger.) ■ ■
The timbales come in pairs, fastened to a metal stand like the one-headed
tom-toms. These one-headed drums are often mistaken for tom-toms, but their
metal shell of about snare-drum depth gives them a more metallic and piercing
sound. They are of Latin American origin and come in only two sizes: 13 inches
and 14 inches in diameter, one a high drum and the other low.
There are several ways to play timbales:
1. with timbale sticks, which are wooden dowels, thinner and lighter than
snare drumsticks;
2. with marimba mallets;
3. with the hands;
4. with any kind of mallet or stick on the rim, in the center of the drum, or in a
rim shot.

CD-4/IR. 94

i 2 - 7 0 . Timbales

e x a m p le

№ st

JQF
pp

1st tim e
2nd tim e

C D -R O M
C D -5
B O N G O DRUM S

Bongos (Bong.) n
The bongos, single-headed drums of Latin American origin, always come in
attached pairs and are indefinitely pitched. Professional bongos have a tighten­
ing apparatus on the rim and are usually adjusted to be a perfect 4th or 5th
apart. Most musical organizations have only one set of bongos, but four sizes
are manufactured—low, high, higher, and highest—and it is now safe to write
for two sets. Primitive bongos are simply skin over shell and cannot be changed
in timing.

th e

P e r c u s s io n E n s e m b l e

Bongos are traditionally held between the knees and played by hand.
However, they can be mounted like timbales and played by hand or with snare
drumsticks, any kind of mallet, or even very softly with brushes. Professional
bongo players have developed a specialized technique with which extraordi­
nary feats can be performed on the instrument. The ordinary orchestral percus­
sion player cannot be expected to be proficient in that type of playing, but he or
she should be able to play drum techniques on this instrument that are typical
of the tom-tom.
EXAMPLE

12-71.

Bongos

c d -4/ t r . 9 5

Ffcst
1st tim e w ith hands
2nd tim e w ith sticks

Conga Drum (Conga); Tum ba (It.) 0
This Latin American bass drum is used quite often in the symphony orches­
tra today. It stands about thirty inches high, and its single head is about eleven
inches in diameter. The typical conga drum has a reverse hourglass figure. The
drum is best played with the hands, but all types of mallets may be used. By
striking the head near the rim, the player can get a higher pitch than by hitting
the center of the head; if a composer desires two different pitches, he or she
must clearly indicate this in the notation by using two different lines or spaces
for the two pitches.
EXAMPLE

1 2 - 7 2 . Conga Drum

C D-RO M
C D -5
C O N G A DRUM

C D -4/T R . 9 6

Fast

Tambourine (Tamb.); Tam buro basco (It.); Tam bour de basqu e (Fr.);
Tamburin (Ger.) -ftThe tambourine, like so many percussion instruments, has ancient origins,
and we find mention of it in the Bible. It evokes thoughts of Spain, but is used
for all kinds of music today. The instrument is basically a shallow drum consist­
ing of a single-head skin fastened over a wooden hoop. Around this wooden
frame are several slots with pairs of small disc cymbals that jingle when the in­
strument is struck or shaken. Since there are several sizes of tambourines, you
should specify the large 15-inch, medium 10-inch, or small 6-inch model. If there
is no particular specification, the player will usually use the 10-inch instrument.
There are several playing techniques:
1. striking the instrument with the knuckles;
2. playing it softly with the fingers;
3. shaking it (notated like a roll), usually used for loud rolls;

C D -R O M
C D -5
T A M B O U R IN E

465

466

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

4. playing a thumb roll or trill, usually used for soft rolls (this must be spelled
out in the part; see below);
5. using all kinds of sticks and mallets, if the instrument is placed on a stand or
chair;
6. placing it on other percussion instruments, such as the timpani, snare drum,
or bass drum, and playing it with a mallet.
exam ple

C D -4/T R . 9 7

12 - 73 . Tambourine
(shake)

(thumb)

(shake)

ff
pp

1st tim e
2nd tim e

C D -R O M
C D -5
Q U IC A

Quica; String Drum (String Dr.) or Lion's Roar
The shape of the quica, a Brazilian instrument, is that of a large, deep bongo.
The quica is a single-headed drum with a pole embedded inside in the center of
the drum head. The pole is stroked or rubbed with a damp sponge or cloth,
which makes the skin of the drum head vibrate to produce a sound. Usually the
instrument's shell consists of a large wooden bucket; the larger the bucket the
louder the sound.
The string drum or lion's roar is similarly constructed but has a tight,
rosined string or leather strap instead of a pole, which is often tied on the out­
side of the drum head to a round piece of wood. When this piece of wood is
turned it grips the string, then lets it go. This sets up vibrations throughout the
head and shell and produces a sound very much like an actual lion's roar.
These instruments are used with great frequency today, in such pieces as
Christopher Rouse's Infernal Machine and Edgard Varese's Ameriques.
EXAMPLE

C D -4/ T R . 9 8

12-74.

Quica

V

£

f

A D D ITIO N A L PASSAGE FOR STU D Y

D. Dratell, Throb

Aerophones
Sirens
Many twentieth-century composers have used sirens, especially Edgard
Varese, George Antheil, and Paul Hindemith, to paint a realistic picture of
"modern" society. If you wish to use sirens, you should designate the volume
and the type of siren, such as high, shrill, ringing, and so on. The notation is
not standardized, but could be on one line, showing the duration and
dynamic.

The

p e r c u ssio n

Motor Horns
Motor horns of all kinds have been used, especially in early twentiethcentury pieces (such as Gershwin's An American in Paris) in which urban life is
to be evoked. All these effects must be used very carefully, for most of them by
now have become cliches.
Wind Machine
The wind machine is a large cylindrical wood frame covered with canvas.
The player rotates it by turning a handle. The canvas is stroked by thin pieces of
wood, creating a kind of swirling and whistling sound as the revolutions accel­
erate. The result is a very realistic wind effect. The successful use of a wind ma­
chine in Richard Strauss's Alpine Symphony and Don Quixote prompted other
composers to experiment with it as well, such as, for instance, Morton Gould in
"Fire Music" from Audubon.

Ш ADDITIONAL P A S S A G E S FO R ST U D Y
Passages for a Combination of Percussion Instruments:
Chabrier, Espam (large percussion section)
M. Colgrass, /4s Quiet As, third movement (large section plays pianissimo)
Jolivet, Symphony No. 2, first movement, from [34] to end (large combination)
Messiaen, Trois petites liturgies, second movement (large percussion section plus
piano and ondes martenot)
Ravel, Alborado del gracioso, starting 20 mm. from end (large combination)
R. Sierra, Evocaciones III, Caprichoso (vibraphone, guiro, and many other
percussion instruments)
Tan Dun, Gitimalia (marimba, six tuned cowbells, two harps, and amplified
guitar)
J. Tavener, Celtic Requiem; Ultimos ritos; The Whale (large percussion ensembles,
plus bagpipes, saxophones, and organ)
Varese, Ameriques (nine percussion players, two harps, and two timpani players)
Varese, Offrandes (harp plus large percussion section)
Wagner, Das Rheingold, Scene П (large combination)
Passages for Instruments Less Often Used in the Orchestra:
Chen Yi, Chinese Myths Cantata (combination of Chinese and Western percussion
instruments)
A. Kemis, Lament and Prayer (Asian bells)
Messiaen, Turangalila-symphonie (ondes martenot)
M. Rosza, music from the music Spellbound (theremin)
Tan Dim, Li Sao (three bamboo flutes and four percussionists)
D. Ward-Steinman, Rituals for Dancers and Musicians (steel drum, African
drums, koto, marimba, prepared piano)
R. Wemick, Kaddish-Requiem (sitar, tape)

en sem ble

13
K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

Keyboard instruments have been a part of the orchestra for as long as it has ex­
isted, even if their function within it has varied. During the Baroque the harpsi­
chord or sometimes the organ was used as a continuo instrument to realize the
underlying figured-bass harmony. This practice continued well into the eigh­
teenth century, in the early Haydn and Mozart symphonies, as well as the
works of Bach's sons and those of the Mannheim school of composers. The con­
tinuo parts in these works were performed on the harpsichord, the organ, or
later the fortepiano, the ancestor of the modern piano. Of course, during this pe­
riod keyboard instruments were also popular as solo instruments accompanied
by the orchestra.
Starting at the end of the nineteenth century keyboard instruments—par­
ticularly the modem piano and the celesta—were used as regular members of
the symphony orchestra, their parts woven into the orchestral fabric in the
same manner as those assigned to string, wind, brass, or percussion instru­
ments. Each keyboard instrument has been exploited not for its ability to play
complete chords as a continuo instrument but rather for its own unique tim­
bre, for its ability to play several melodic lines simultaneously, or for its
soloistic capabilities. Today every standard orchestral organization employs at
least one full-time pianist who doubles also on harpsichord and celesta, when
needed. The large orchestras also retain a part-time organist for those occa­
sions where that instrument is included in a score. The very special functions
of the keyboard instruments that have been used in the orchestra are of pri­
mary interest to us in this chapter. For more information about this ever-ex­
panding group of instruments, please see the list of books and journals in
Appendix B.

P ia n o
Pianoforte (It .); Klavier (G er.)

The piano is perhaps the best known and most versatile of all musical instru­
ments in use today. The piano has probably been featured in more solo concer­
tos than any other instrument. Yet even though it has been available in some
form or another since the eighteenth century, the piano did not become an

468

K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

orchestral instrument until the
latter part of the nineteenth
century* and has been exten­
sively used in that medium
only in the twentieth. It is clear
from studying orchestral scores
that the innovative use of the
piano as an orchestral instru­
ment occurred first in France,
since it first appears in the
scores of Saint-Sa&ns, D'Indy,
Debussy, and Stravinsky.
The piano as an orchestral
instrument normally is used in
the following ways:
1. As the solo instrument in a piano concerto.
2. As the performer of an obbligato part, as in Bloch's Concerto Grosso No. 1 or
Stravinsky's Petrushka, and other works (Saint-Sa&is's Carnival of the Animals
and Symphony No. 3 use two pianos to play the obbligato).
3. As a purely orchestral instrument, as in Debussy's Printemps, Frank Martin's
Symphony No. 4, Shostakovich's Symphonies Nos. 1 and 5, Copland's
Symphony No. 3, Prokofiev's Symphony No. 5, Sessions's Symphony No. 2,
Michael Colgrass's As Quiet As, and many other works.
In this capacity, the piano is usually used to double a passage or empha­
size a secco chord or note, with its extreme registers employed more often
than those at the middle of the instrument. Doublings of the piano with
strings, woodwinds, and brass in any combination are also successful. In
some instances the piano is used instead of a harp, playing arpeggios in for­
tissimo passages where the latter would be completely obliterated.
Occasional solos may be assigned to the piano for contrast, but since the in­
strument is usually placed somewhere in back of the orchestra, these fea­
tured passages do not convey the impression of a solo in a particular work.
4. As a percussion instrument, substituting for or contrasting with the xylo­
phone, marimba, or vibraphone; at the bottom of its range the piano can also
reinforce the timpani or bass drum.
5. As a filler instrument; in many nonprofessional and school orchestras a
piano is, often used to fill in for instruments that may be lacking, such as the
oboe, bassoon, or viola. This purely pragmatic function will be discussed in
more detail in Chapter 16.

’ During the entire nineteenth century, when the harpsichord was virtually forgotten, the
piano was often used as a continuo instrument for the performance of works from the Baroque
period. Historical documentation shows us that the piano, too, was abandoned for this purpose
when conductors realized figured basses with woodwind instruments. Typical were the
arrangements of Vivaldi concerti made by Alexander Siloti, a Russian pianist and pedagogue,
which were popular during the first decades of the twentieth century.

469

470

T h e s t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Range
The piano has the greatest range of any instrument used in the orchestra, other
than the organ, discussed below.
exa m ple

1 3 - 1 . Range

15“ - - ,

- -1

The Three Piano Pedals
The most frequently used of the three pedals on a piano is the damper pedal,
which when depressed lifts all the dampers and permits the strings to vibrate
even after the key has been released. This pedal is found on all pianos, both
grand and upright. The una corda pedal, the next most used, when depressed
on a grand piano moves the hammers into a position where they can strike
only one or in some cases two of the three strings of one pitch (una corda
means "one string"). On an upright piano this pedal moves the hammers
closer to the strings. On both grand and upright pianos this pedal is designed
to soften the tone of the instrument. The center pedal, called the sostenuto
pedal, is the least frequently used since it is the newest to be added to the
piano; the sostenuto pedal sustains only those pitches that are depressed at the
same time the pedal is put into action. It is most useful for bass-note pedal
points, which can be sustained while other pitches are played over them (in
fact, it is ineffective on notes above middle C). Either of the other two pedals
may be used at will without affecting the pedal-point note(s). Unfortunately,
many older pianos, as well as European pianos and a great majority of up­
rights, do not have the sostenuto pedal, so it is a risk to write for it.
Nevertheless, orchestral pianos, which are usually nine-foot grands, would
most certainly have it.

una corda
pedal

sostenuto
pedal

damper
(sustaining pedal)

Some people refer to the right pedal, the damper, as the sostenuto; how­
ever, using the term in this way can lead to confusion; therefore in the score it
is best to use the names given above. In English, however, we often refer to the

keyboard

In s t r u m e n t s

damper pedal as the sustaining pedal, since the sound is sustained by depress­
ing it.

Novel Effects on the Piano
Other uses of the piano that have been employed within the last few decades
are the following:
1. Prepared piano, as indicated in the score, means that various objects
(nails, bolts, etc.) are placed either on top of the strings or wedged between
them.
2. The piano strings may be struck with various beaters or brushes to sound
like mallet percussion or dulcimers.
3. The piano strings may be plucked either secco or allowed to vibrate.
4. Roaring bass tremolos, which simulate a whole battery of bass drums, can
be performed by depressing the damper pedal and playing a tremolo inside
the piano, with both hands alternating on the lowest strings.
5. Some composers (for example, Bernstein in The Age o f Anxiety, Copland in
Billy the Kid) ask for upright pianos to suggest the 'local color" of the bar­
room or music hall.
6. Toy and player pianos, may be employed to give a special effect (as in works
by Conlon Nancarrow and in Colgrass's As Quiet As).
There are some extraordinary works in which multiple pianos and percus­
sion constitute the entire orchestra. Two of the most important are Stravinsky's
Les Noces and Orff's Catulli carmina.

Orchestral Uses of the Piano
Following are some successful uses of the piano in its various functions as an or­
chestral instrument.
As a Doubling Instrument
Stravinsky writes a striking piano part that doubles the woodwinds to give
that section an extra "ping" and the entire passage a very fresh articulation. He
later made an arrangement of this dance for piano solo.

C D -5/ T R . t

i

e x a m p l e 1 3 -2 . Stravinsky, Petrushka, First Tableau, Russian Dance, mm. 1-9
Allegro giusto j = 116

2P icc.

Eng. Hn.
BVC1. 1,2
BtCL
Ben. 1,2

Btm.3

FHn. 1,
F Ha. 3, 4

2 BtTpt.

Tamb. de
Basque

2 Vta.

Vln. 1
Vln.2
3 Via. Solos

Similarly, in this example Shostakovich reinforces the high strings and upper
winds with the cutting sound of the upper piano register, which gives the pas­
sage a real edge.

Ke y b o a r d In s tru m e n ts

e x a m p le 1 3-3. Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, second movement, mm. 113-118

Allegro J= 192

2 ACL
2 B s il

4 FHn.

Timp.
TrgL
Tamb.
Cyrab.
Bs. Dr.

As an Accompanying Instrument
Here the piano fulfills the function of a traditional chordal accompaniment
to the clarinet solo. Only the bass notes of the piano are doubled, very softly, by
pizzicato string basses; the percussion reinforces the piano's rhythm.

C D -5/ T R . 2

473

e x a m p le 1 3-4. Bernstein, On the Town, 'Times Square," mm. 1-5
l

Allegro ( J = 88)

T ra p s, one player.

K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

Ш

ADD ITIO NAL PASSAGES FOR STU D Y

Berg, Lulu Suite, "Ostinato," mm. 37-45
Bernstein, The Age of Anxiety (offstage piano)
Copland, Symphony No. 3, second movement, mm. 115-120
J. Corigliano, Symphony No. 1 (offstage piano)
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, first movement, at QF) (piano and pizzicato
strings)
Stravinsky, Les Noces, "Chez le maire," [27] to [so] (four pianos and percussion)
Stravinsky, Oedipus Rex, at [T9], mm. 1-11
Stravinsky, Petrushka, Second Tableau (study piano part throughout)
Stravinsky, Symphony of Psalms, last movement, beginning, and at [22I,
"Laudate" to the end (two pianos)

CELESTA
Celeste (Fr.)
The celesta, a steel-bar piano, is probably
used more frequently in the orchestra than
any other keyboard instrument. It looks like
a miniature version of the piano, although it
sounds very much like a glockenspiel. Its
tone is soft and delicate, even though be­
cause of its high frequencies it has a penetrat­
ing sound; it is by no means as piercing as
the glockenspiel, however.
The celesta's range spans four octaves:
e x a m p l e 1 3 - 5 . Range ( s o u n d s one octave
higher than written)

The mechanism of the celesta works in the following manner: felt hammers
strike steel bars, which He across a small wooden resonator box. One cannot
play a true, short staccato on this instrument since the pitches are sustained by
the resonator. The instrument has a damper pedal to sustain pitches even fur­
ther, but this effect is much more subtle than on a piano.
Melodic lines, chords, and arpeggios are all effective on the celesta, which is
usually played by the pianist of the orchestra. Besides solo celesta passages,
some of the most exciting pages of music for this instrument occur when it dou­
bles any combination of strings, harp, piano, and soft woodwinds, where it
gives a silvery sheen to the overall sound.
Here are some outstanding examples of celesta passages. The first consti­
tutes one of the most famous and effective passages for the celesta, here used as
a solo instrument.

476

The stu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

e x a m p le

C D -5TT R . 4

13 -6 . Tchaikovsky, The Nutcracker, "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy,"

mm. 5-12
Andante

In his opera Der Rosenkavalier (Example 13-7) Richard Strauss beautifully high­
lights any mention of the romantic symbol of the rose with a unique orchestral
coloring that features the celesta. In the next example, the celesta doubles the
flutes, piccolos, harps, and violins in the introduction to Octavian's aria.
■

ADD ITIO N AL PASSA G ES

FOR STUD Y

Babbitt, Relata I (xylophone, marimba, vibraphone, celesta, harp and piano)
Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta, third movement, mm. 34-43
Berio, Concertino, mm. 1-6 (celesta)
L. Foss, Time Cycles, second movement, mm. 171-175
Grofe, Grand Canyon Suite, "On the Trail" (extensive celesta cadenza toward the
end)
S. Gubaidulina, Offertorium (two harps, celesta, and piano)
Holst, The Planets, "Venus" (final 11 mm.) and "Mercury" (end)
A. Hovhaness, As on the Night (celesta in different key from the strings)
Respighi, The Fountains of Rome, fourth movement, [20] to end
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, first movement, last 4 measures
Schreker, Kammersymphonie, first movement, beginning to [з] (piano, celesta,
harmonium)
S. Silver, Three Preludes for Orchestra, Prelude No. 2 (celesta, harp, and piano)
Toch, Chinese Flute, "Procession of the Monks" (celesta in different key from the
strings)

1 3-7. R. Strauss, Der Rosenkavalier, Act II, Octavian's aria
"Mir ist die Ehre," 4 mm. before [25]

exa m ple

3

C D -5/TR. 5

478

The S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Ha r p s ic h o r d
Cembalo (It. and Ger.); Clavecin (Fr.J
The harpsichord is a plucked
string instrument: instead of being
struck by hammers, the strings are
plucked by crow quills or leather
tabs. Usually five to eight pedals
or hand-pulled pistons operate
register stops; on the big harpsi­
chords with two keyboards a cou­
pler combines the keyboards'
registrations. The pistons and cou­
pler afford a great deal of variety
in tone quality and, when the key­
boards are joined together, add
strength to the instrument. Some harpsichords, called pedal harpsichords, have a
full organ pedal keyboard, operated by the feet. These are rare, and the orchestrator has to request them specially.
ex a m ple

1 3 - e . Range

During the Baroque era and even in some of the early Haydn symphonies,
the harpsichord was always present in the orchestra to realize the continuo
parts. When the orchestra expanded and the style changed this instrument was
no longer needed as an integral part of the ensemble; because of its relatively
small sound, it was replaced by the piano. For the last fifty years at least, there
has been a renewed interest in building harpsichords and in using them as part
of the orchestra to add additional color.
Take care that this rather delicate instrument is not overwhelmed. It is best
heard alone or in combination with instruments capable of playing quite softly.
Some composers have written for amplified harpsichord (Penderecki, Partita);
in those cases the harpsichord is not at such a disadvantage.
Some successful recent uses of the harpsichord within an orchestral texture
may be found in the following works: Falla's Retablo de maese Pedro, Frank Martin's
Petite symphonie concertante, Richard Strauss's Dance Suite after Couperin, Carter's
Double Concerto, and Mel Powell's Miniatures for Baroque Ensemble, given below.

K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

e x a m p le

Я

1 3 - 9 . M. Powell, Miniatures, fourth movement, mm. 1 - 5

ADDITIONAL PASSAGES FOR S TU D Y

M. Colgrass, /Is Quiet As, second movement
Falla, Concerto for Harpsichord, second movement
N. Sheriff, Two Epigrams
L. Trimble, Four Fragments from the Canterbury Tales, "Prologue," (voice, flute,
clarinet, harpsichord)

c d -b / tr. e

479

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e st r a t io n

O rgan
Organo (It.); Orgue (Fr.); Orgel (Ger.)
The early history of the
organ in the orchestra is a
long one, extending back
into the Baroque period. At
that time it was indispens­
able as a continuo instru­
ment and as a frequent
soloist with orchestral ac­
companiment. But like the
harpsichord, when musical
style changed and continuo
instruments were no longer
needed, the organ was rele­
gated to the church and dis­
appeared as an integral
member of the orchestra. It
did, however, retain its posi­
tion in the opera house,
where it was used to depict
a religious scene or feeling,
such as in Meyerbeer's Le
ProphHte, Gounod's Faust,
Halevy's La Juive, Verdi's
Otello, Puccini's Tosca, and
Wagner's Lohengrin. Even
though solo music for organ
was quite popular at the beginning and in the middle of the nineteenth cen­
tury—with Mendelssohn, Schumann, Brahms, and Reubke writing major pieces
for the instrument—it was not until БатЬБаёпй'э Symphony No. 3 that a major
concert work was written with an organ part. Mahler (Symphony No. 8) and
Strauss (Also sprach Zarathustra) ushered in a period of great orchestral writing
for the organ. Quite a few organ concertos have been written in the past seventy
years, and solo organ music from France, Germany, England, and the United
States is voluminous.
The range of the organ is the greatest of all instruments in the orchestra.
Example 13-10 shows the written range of the organ, without the 32-foot, 16-foot,
4-foot, or 2-foot extensions. If you wish to extend the range downward by one or
two octaves, you must write +16' or +32' at the beginning of the passage.
Similarly, if you want to extend a passage upward by an octave or two, you need
to specify + 4' or + 2', respectively, on the score. Most organs do not have 32' ex­
tensions; some do not have 2' extensions.

Ke y b o a r d in s t r u m e n t s
e x a m p le

13- 10 . Range

Manuals

Pedal

The organ's great attractions as an orchestral instrument are its ability to
sustain pitches at a constant volume indefinitely, and the many color combina­
tions it has available to complement or contrast with other orchestral colors.
Unfortunately, many concert halls do not have a pipe organ, and often an elec­
tronic organ or a small positive organ with insufficient power and timbral ca­
pacity must be substituted for the large pipe organ that the composer had in
mind.
Throughout the Saint-Sarais Symphony No. 3 the organ is well integrated
into the fabric of the orchestra. In the following excerpt, from the first move­
ment, it lends its sustaining quality to the lush string section, making the sound
even more sensuous:
e x a m p l e

13- 11.

Saint-Sams, Symphony No. 3, first movement,

mm. 350-365
350

Poco adagio J = 60

C D -5/T R . 7

481

482

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

S ADDITIONAL P A S S A G E S FOR STUD Y
J. Corigliano, Three Hallucinations (electric organ)
Grainger, Country Derry Air (organ and orchestra)
Holst, The Planets, "Mars" and "Neptune" (extensive organ part all the way
through)
E. Laderman, Symphonies No. 2 and No. 3
Respighi, The Pines of Rome, fourth movement, |20] to end
Shostakovich, Romance on Pushkin Texts
R. Strauss, Also Sprach Zarathustra, mm. 19-21
There are also extensive organ passages in some operas of Gounod, Mascagni,
Puccini, Verdi, and Wagner, among others.

K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

H A R M O N IU M
Organetto (It.)
The harmonium is a small pump organ, sometimes called a reed organ. It has
either one or two keyboards and a range of five octaves. Some harmoniums
have as many as fifteen organ stops that can change the tone quality and ex­
tend the range an octave higher and an octave lower. These instruments are
rare today.

exa m ple

1 3 - 1 2 . Range

a*- -J
The harmonium's mechanism works as follows: the player pumps two ped­
als below the keyboard, which work the bellows inside the instrument to set
the air in motion. The air, in turn, activates the reeds when the keys are
depressed.
Relatively few orchestral works use harmonium, although it did have a re­
naissance during the early part of the twentieth century (in works by Richard
Strauss, Bartok, and Hindemith) and seems to be coming back into vogue again
today—at least in Europe. The parts usually resemble organ parts without the
pedal board. In the following example, the harmonium aids the singer by sus­
taining a harmonic accompaniment to the recitative. No other keyboard instru­
ment except the organ could accomplish this task so well.

484

T h e S tu d y

o f

O r c h e s tr a tio n

e x a m p le

CD -5/TR. 8

gg

HAUSHOFMEISTER

MUSIKLEHRER

2nd stand
4 Vln.
3rd stand

1st stand
4 Via.
2nd stand

4 Vcl.
2nd stand

13-13. R. Strauss, Ariadne auf Naxos, mm. 80-89

R ecitative (schnell)

K e y b o a r d In s t r u m e n t s

Harm.

HAUSHOFMEISTER

MUSKLEHRER

1st stand

HAUSHOFMEISTER

MUSIKLEHRER
stein-reich-en Man-nes.

Fur dee S ie samt
Ihrem Eleven Шге :
Notenarbeit zu
liefern die
Auszeichnung
hatten — Was dan Vft ' ff—
НЭРгуBtefat noeh zu
Diensten?
Die-se

2 Vic.
2nd stand

Harm.

MUSDCLEHRER
N o -te n -a r-b e it 1st ein e rn -stes, b e -d e u -te n -d e s

&

a d d it io n a l

p a ssa g e s

fo r

Werk.

Es kann uns nicfat gleich - gul - tig eeln,

stu d y

P. Maxwell Davies, Missa Super L'homme arme (harmonium, harpsichord, celesta,
and honky-tonk piano)
E. Laderman, Magic Prison
Webern, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 10, No. 5, mm. 9-10, m. 15, m. 21

PR A C TIC E
ORCHESTRATION

IN

14
S co r in g

P er c u ssio n
w ith K e y b o a r d A l o n e
o r in C o m b i n a t i o n
for

The versatility of the percussion section is virtually limitless. However, its over­
use by the inexperienced orchestrator—perhaps in an attempt to cover up weak
places in the composition but frequently obscuring important musical details—
once led Walter Piston to say to his students, "When you write a fortissimo for the
timpani doubled by bass drum, don't expect to hear anything else from the rest
of the orchestra." We need to consider his admonition very seriously; even more
than the entire brass section, a loud bass drum or cymbal roll can obliterate the
entire orchestra, no matter how loud the tutti may be playing. In The Art of
Orchestration Bernard Rogers wisely advises, "In writing for percussion, the sanc­
tified tradition is the less the better."* In this chapter we will learn the virtues of
restraint and caution by studying how the great composers, both past and pre­
sent, have successfully used the orchestral percussion section in their scores.
In dealing with any instrument, choir, or section, we must recognize one
fundamental, underlying issue: whatever instruments are used must be an or­
ganic part of the composition; in other words, they must sound inevitable, as if
no other instrument(s) could be substituted. The selection of any instrument or
group of instruments must serve the musical ideas of the piece and present
them in the most effective manner possible.
This chapter is divided into two parts: the first, an extension of the previous
two chapters, covers major issues of score placement as well as special notation
for percussion and keyboard instruments; the second deals with the tremen­
dously varied use of the percussion ensemble (including keyboard instruments)
in combination with other choirs of the symphony orchestra.

P E R C U S S IO N LAYOUT
in t h e F u l l S c o r e
м м 1 | ».лв а м а м п | 1 м т

Arrangement of Instruments
The percussion and keyboard section is traditionally placed between the brass
and the strings on the score page, with the timpani appearing first. Since there
are at most three to four percussion players in a symphony orchestra, not

76.
486

’Bernard Rogers, The Art of Orchestration (New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1951), p.

w it h

Keyboard Alo n e o r

in

C o m b in a tio n

including the timpanist and the keyboard player, and since these few percus­
sion players are asked to perform on a multitude of different instruments, it is
imperative that the composer or orchestrator arrange the percussion section of
the score very carefully and that the notation be instantly legible.
There are many schools of thought concerning score setup, as will be shown
in Examples 14-7 through 14-10. In this section we will establish an approach
that is clear and logical; we recommend that you follow it when you create new
scores. By not paying enough attention to the percussion setup on a score page,
the composer or orchestrator risks having his or her intentions clouded by am­
biguity or misunderstanding.

Order of Nonpitched Percussion
These instruments are most commonly ordered on the score page by one or
both of the following criteria:
1. by height of pitches played, with the highest instrument at the top and the
lowest on the bottom;
2. by the materials from which the instrument is constructed, such as:
metal
wood
membrane
Since there are so many nonpitched instruments, let us take only a few of the
most common and set them up in suitable score sequence according to the
guidelines given above, remembering that as a group they are placed immedi­
ately below the timpani. We will rearrange the following instruments: snare
drum, bass drum, triangle, tambourine, sleigh bells, wood blocks, tenor drum,
temple blocks, cymbals, and tam-tam (of course, it is unusual to find even this
set of percussion instruments playing at the same time in an orchestral work):
triangle
sleigh bells
cymbals
tam-tam
wood blocks
temple blocks
tambourine
snare drum
tenor drum
bass drum

Order of Keyboard Instruments
Next on the score page come the keyboard instruments. These instruments
are usually placed below the timpani and the nonpitched percussion instru­
ments, and are usually listed in descending order, the highest pitched instru­
ment first:
glockenspiel
crotales

487

PRA CTICE

P e r c u s sio n

IN

for

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

IN PRACTI CE
ORCHESTRATION

488

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

xylophone
vibraphone
marimba
chimes
celesta
piano
harpsichord
organ
Not all of these instruments are used in every score, but when any of them do
appear they should be arranged in this sequence. If harps are also called for, they
should be placed above all the keyboard instruments at a particular spot in a large
work. Thus, a percussion section that consists of the following instruments: tim­
pani, harp, xylophone, and celesta, would be set up in the following order
timpani
harp
xylophone
celesta
If nonpitched percussion instruments were called for in the score, they would
appear below the timpani and above the harp.

Assignment of Players
The assignment of a specific group of instruments to any one player is not of
great importance unless:
1. The position of the instruments on the stage is predetermined by the instru­
ments that are required in the score, as well as the amount of physical space
allotted to the percussion section.
2. Two instruments must be placed at the same time, in which case:
a. the player will use a different mallet, beater, or stick in each hand;
b. the player will use the same beater(s) for both instruments.
Player 1

triangle
cymbal with stick
_ snare drum

Player 2

' tam-tam
tenor drum
. bass drum

Player 3

sleigh bells
wood blocks
temple blocks
_ tambourine

In the distribution of parts given above, all three players could strike two instru­
ments at the same time by holding a different beater in each hand. They could
perform a technique such as a drum roll only if they had the appropriate sticks
in both hands.

ORCHESTRATION!

IN

Notation
All instruments, no matter where they are placed on the score, must be dili­
gently labeled both at the beginning of the score and in the percussion parts. If
three or four players are needed, be sure that each player is able to handle all
the instruments required of him or her in the score and allow enough time for
each player to go to his or her next instrument or group of instruments.
As we mentioned in Chapter 12, the notation for the pitched percussion in­
struments will use five-line staves with treble or bass clefs; that for nonpitched
percussion instruments can take many forms.

Notating Nonpitched Percussion Instruments with No Pitch Variation
Single instruments such as the maracas or claves can be notated on a single
line, either using a one-line staff or a line or space within a five-line staff.
example

14- 1. Single Nonpitched Percussion Instruments

Tamb.

Field Dr.

Let us suppose we have one player playing snare, tenor, and bass drums.
We can use either a one line or a five-line staff for each instrument, or show all
three instruments on one five-line staff, assigning a different line or space to
each instrument.
example

14 -2. Several Nonpitched Percussion Instruments

-H------Player 1 < Ten. Dr.

-

■I

U?
3 •

- ЯЛ
/

П
[) ^

изJ *

S. Dr.
Player 1 t Ten. Dr.

489

P R A C T IC E

S c o r i n g f o r P e r c u s s i o n w i t h K e y b o a r d A l o n e o r in C o m b i n a t i o n

■

U

-

;t 7 ,> mmm
"

П

)

ji

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

490

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Any of these three methods would dearly notate the three instruments.
Notice that in the first two examples the stems of the tenor drum notes go up or
down. The third option is preferred by many percussionists.
If three different players were to perform the three different instrumental
parts given in Example 14-2, either of the first two notational methods could be
used, but the stems of the snare and tenor drum notes in measure 5 would of
course need to be separated.

Notating Nonpitched Percussion Instruments
with Pitch Variation
There are several accepted methods of notating multiples of a single instru­
ment in different sizes, as when three wood blocks, five temple blocks, three
timbales, or four cymbals are used. Either a one-, two-, or five-line staff can be
used; for instruments in four different sizes or greater we recommend the clarity
of a five-line staff.
example

1 4-3. Multiples of a Single Instrument

--- 4---- £----------

-П
i---— ^—
П --—
41 %
4—W
j

n ?4
L
—

n

L

ff\

U.

—l---------

ГТ1 3
,т п

4-

f
or

Notating More than One Nonpitched Percussion Instrument
on a Single Line
Sometimes a composer might wish to have a player perform on two instru­
ments in very close proximity. Often these parts will be notated on one line,
with written cues about which instrument should be played next.
exam ple

1 4 - 4 . Two Instruments, One Player
to Bs. Dr.

Trgi-

ОI - Д
PP

«I— J— I Д

Bs. Dr.

J—1— I------------ 1----------—£—J-— (-^— i i — I
tf

sf

sf

ill

u
S c o r in g

fo r

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

K eybo ard A lo n e

o r

in

C o m b in a t io n

491

fcf
<

This type of notation certainly saves space, and is especially useful when there
is only one percussion player or there is very litde written for the percussion
section in the work. One further refinement would make this notation even
clearer: making the bass drum stems go down instead of up to differentiate it
from the triangle (see also Example 12-47).

r If * * I
if

If

One crucially important fact must be kept in mind whenever one player is
called on to switch from one instrument to another: enough time must be al­
lowed for the player to change sticks. It is not so bad between triangle and bass
drum, for example, for the player can hold a triangle beater in one hand and a
bass drumstick in the other. However, if the switch is between a triangle and a
snare drum, the performer must put down the triangle beater and ready the two
snare drumsticks in order to play on that instrument.

Notating a Switch from Nonpitched to Pitched Percussion
Instruments
Another notational issue concerns switching from a nonpitched to a pitched
percussion instrument (or vice versa), printed on the same line and played by
the same performer. Here are two ways of providing clear notation:
1 4- 6. Nonpitched and Pitched Instruments
й
-n -a — h
In s ^

*

1

toXyL

XyL

1%

-1

* -•

7 *

1

1

Z
О

<
flt
I(Л
Ы

и
a.

AS Л J J | Л J ) Г ? I . ip

exam ple

z

X

e x a m p l e 1 4 - 5 . Two Instruments, One Player

Д

e
q.

j b

r

r >

H

or

Xyl.

Again, some time has to be allotted for the player to switch from sticks to mal­
lets (or vice versa), unless the composer wishes both instruments to be played
with xylophone mallets, in which case this should be notated in the score. If this
were done, less time would be needed between the performances of the two in­
struments, for the player could position them in such a manner as to play them
both at the same time.

Notated Examples of Percussion Parts
The following percussion placements on pages taken from actual orchestral
scores using large percussion sections do not always adhere to our guidelines
given above. For instance, for the setup for the Turkish-sounding instruments in

о

PR A CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

492

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Mozart's overture to Die Entfuhrung aus dem Serail the publisher chose to put the
bass drum first, placing it on a five-line staff, while the triangle and cymbals are
assigned to a one-line staff. Notice also that this publisher did not follow the
high-to-low sequence:
exam ple

1 4 - 7 . Mozart, Die Entfuhrung aus dem Serail, Overture, m m . 1 - 9

Shostakovich follows the prescribed sequence in his percussion setup, plac­
ing all the nonpitched instruments below the timpani and above the xylophone,
in high-to-low order.
example

1 4-e. Shostakovich, Symphony No. 6, opening

Tim pani
Tam burino
Tam b. milit.
Triangolo
Piatti
G r. Cassa
Tam-tam
X ilofono

Arpa

i

Celesta

i

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo ard

a l o n e o r in

C o m b in a t io n

IN

In the setup of this Orff score the xylophone is placed above the nonpitched
percussion—certainly an acceptable arrangement but not as often used as that
of the Shostakovich example.
example 1 4-9. Orff, Carmirn buram, No. 14, "In tabema quando suitiuS," mm.
83-96
Ti-f-

H t'

-Щ

XU.
Cdiian

PUL

Put.

------- -------- e u - i d
Z—
3&
- 4
------- -------- b-J4 —
M

Since the four pianos are counted as soloists rather than as part of the per­
cussion ensemble in the next example, Stravinsky places them above the tim­
pani. All other percussion instruments are below the timpani, with the
xylophones again right below, followed by the nonpitched percussion in a more
or less high-to-low sequence.

493

PRACTICE

fo r

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r in g

e x a m p l e

14-ю .

P e r c u s s io n

Stravinsky, Les Noces, Second Tableau, mm. 163-173

s e c t io n

S etu p

не*»— а—Щ

Unless a particular setup is required (as for an antiphonal work) or the com­
poser or orchestrator has had first-hand experience with the problem of choreo­
graphing this very complex section, it is best to leave the assignment of players
and placement of instruments to the section leader or players themselves. Most
professional percussion sections have developed their own favorite, sometimes
idiosyncratic setups.
Some modem scores suggest placements of percussion instruments and
players. We give three examples of these below. If you feel that you must pro­
vide a diagram that shows the appropriate percussion-section placement, be
sure that the number of players needed is clearly indicated in the diagram and
that each player is able to handle all the instruments required of him or her at

exam ple

14-1 1 . W. Kotoriski, a battere

b atten s I

3 piatti (alio, medio, basso)
bi-hat
2 cymb. antiques (in Si e Si{>)
4 cou> bells

tam-lam (medio grande)
bacteria II
3 piatti (alto, medio, basso)
сош bell
triangolo
Almglocke (la piii grossa)
gong giavanese (o gran tam-tam)
piano (posto orizzontalmente sul timpano a ped.)

batteria Ш
3 piatti (alto, medio, basso)
hi-bat
4 Almglocken
2 cymb. antiques (in Mi e Fa)
cbitarra
cembalo
I mil
Tiola
violoncello

I diretlore 1
e x a m p l e

14-12.

Crumb, Echoes o f Time and the River

*ln th e few exam ples of huge percussion sections before our ow n time, R espighi's Feste romane asks for fourteen different percussion instrum ents, ten of w hich play sim ultaneously at
one point d uring the work. M ost orchestras cannot afford to hire ten or m ore players, and un­
less the norm al roster of percussion players— or one that is slightly enlarged— can handle all
the instrum ents, som e parts of necessity m ay be left out.

PRACTICE
IN

any given moment in the piece. It is better to ask for an extra player in a work
with an extremely active percussion section than to demand that too few per­
cussionists cover a multiplicity of instruments.*
Here are three different examples of percussion-section placements. In the
first, Wlodzimierz Kotoriski uses three different languages in his instructions; in
the second and third, all instructions are given in English.

495

ORCHESTRATION

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S IO N W IT H K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B I N A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T IO N

IN PRAC

1

1

496

T he S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

example

1 4 - 1 3 . Berio, Circles

3m xd blocks
пякапойп
tog drum

®c

.япйЫвск—

marimbaphone 0

/ f it# » » s
2 sn ail timpani ®

also иоос/ chimes

P L A C E M E N T of INSTRUMENTS

-•m,ce 1

S c o r in g

fo r

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo a rd Alo n e o r

in

C o m b in a t io n

U S E S O F T H E P ER C U S S IO N
S E C TIO N
We will discuss five leading ways in which the percussion section has been used
in Western orchestral scores over the last few hundred years:
1. to simulate march music (for example, a la Turcjue) or to give an ethnic flavor
(this does not apply to the early use of timpani);
2. to emphasize accents and general rhythmic activity;
3. to build or to cap a climax;
4. to create a dramatic beginning to a work (such as the cymbal struck at the
very beginning of the Prelude to Bizet's Carmen);
5. to color certain pitches or entire passages by doubling other instruments in
the orchestra.
In addition, given the expansion of the percussion section and the extraordinary
technical skill of today's professional percussion players, composers have been
using percussion, especially pitched percussion, as an independent section,
often alternating it with another choir of the orchestra. This most colorful
section of the modern orchestra has many other uses, but these are the most
important.
Let us look at some examples from the orchestral literature. In our discus­
sion we shall include the harp and keyboard instruments, since these are most
often placed together with the percussion group. Since we are concerned with
orchestral literature and not chamber or percussion repertoire, we shall omit
works such as Varese's Ionisation, which is for percussion alone.

Simulating March and
Ethnic Music
An example from Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 typifies the marchlike percus­
sion group (usually called the 'Turkish instruments") so popular with
Classical as well as early Romantic composers for conjuring up the specter of
marching soldiers, wars, or any other kind of strife. Notice that the timpani
are not used, for they were not considered part of this particular percussion
group; by Beethoven's time the timpani had become a regular part of the or­
chestra.
The variation begins with the bass drum reinforcing the bassoons and the
contrabassoon, and four measures later also the clarinets and horns. The bass
d r u m is joined by the triangle and cymbals when the tune enters in the winds
and horns in measure 13. This section is traditionally played with a gradual
crescendo, as if a band were coming toward us from afar.

PRA CTICE
IN

498

th e

C D -5/T R . 9

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p l e

ORCHESTRATION

mm. 1-33

14-14.

Beethoven, Symphony No. 9, fourth movement, Alia marda,

s c o r in g

fo r

p e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo a rd

alon e or

in

C o m b in a t io n

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

K eybo ard Alo n e

o r in

C o m b in a t io n

exam ple

78-98

1 4 - 1 5 . Rimsky-Korsakov, Capriccio espavnol, fourth movement, mm.

Allegretto J. =

4 FHn.

2ATpt.

simile

IN

In the next example, from Capriccio espagnol, Rimsky-Korsakov combines
tambourines and castanets with other percussion instruments (triangle, snare
drum, and cymbals) to suggest the dance music of Spain.

501

P R A C 'IC

fo r

cd-STtr. 10

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g

50 2

The Study

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

fo r

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo a rd Alo n e o r

in

C o m b in a t io n

O R C H e S TR A

MON

Picc.

503

IN P R A C T IC E

S c o r in g

2 FL \

2 0b.
BCL

A Cl.

'A i —
2 Bsn.

■ If

T

> -

y
=T— У№

4 FHn.<

f

W

f

n

ш

в

PR A CTICE

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

CHEST

RATION

IN

50 4

Tarab.

arcof

arco

Tamb.

arco

Using these instruments in this manner had become a cliche with composers of
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, although many successsful composi­
tions, including Chabrier's Espana, were part of this tradition. The same instru­
ments have been used to suggest any region around the Mediterranean, often
appearing in "Italian" and even "Moroccan" pieces, such as Tchaikovsky's
Capriccio Italien and Ibert's Escales.

PR A C TIC E
IN

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Emphasizing Rhythmic Accentuation

ORCHESTRATION

506

The second common usage of percussion instruments is to emphasize general
rhythmic activity or for sharp accents. Several places in Copland's Appalachian
Spnng aptly illustrate the imaginative use of different percussion instruments
for this purpose.
1. The xylophone reinforces every high accent of the violin parts, while the
tabor (a field drum) lends support to the stopped horn's low accent in mea­
sures 53-54.
exam ple

14-16.

Copland, Appalachian Spring, m m . 51-54

Allegro ( J = 160)

ION

IN

2. The piano emphasizes the tfp of the strings in measure 58.

507

PRA CTICE

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N W ITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

example

14-17. Copland, Appalachian Spring, mm. 55-61

ss Allegro

A Cl. 1

ACL 2

Vln. 2

CD -5/TR. 1 2

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

3. The wood block supports the off-beat accent in the violins.

o r ch estr atio n

in

p r a c tic e

508

example

CD -5/TR. 1 3

1 4 - i a . Copland, Appalachian Spring, m m . 225-228

2 0b.

Ш CL 1

a ci. 2

2 Bsn.

2 BiTpt.

2Trb.

Trgl.
WoodBl.

Wood Bl.

example

14 - 1 9 . Copland, Appalachian Spring, m m . 229-244

Allegro

PRACTICE
IN

4. The triangle adds to the excitement of the buildup of the run that leads to a
sharp accent in measure 235; then the snare drum, first with a brush and
then with a stick on the rim, emphasizes the off-beat, creating the effect of a
lighter downbeat.

509

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r p e r c u s s i o n w i t h K e y b o a r d a l o n e o r in c o m b i n a t i o n

510

T he Stu d y

2 Bsn.

2 Bt Tpt.

S. Dr.

Vln. 2

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

PRACTIC
IN
ION

511

ORC H E S T RA !

S c o r i n g f o r P e r c u s s i o n w i t h K e y b o a r d a l o n e o r in C o m b i n a t i o n

IN PRACTIC
ORCHESTRATION

5 12

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

5. The claves, giving off a very dry, woody color, strengthen the high accents at
this rhythmically exciting spot.
C D -5/T R. I S

EXAMPLE 1 4-20. Copland, Appalachian Spring, mm. 375-382

O R C H E S T R A T IO N

in

When this music returns at the end of this section (not shown here), Copland
adds xylophone and strings, finally crowning the climax with a series of solo
timpani strokes aided by bass pizzicati.

Creating a Climax
Many composers have used the percussion section to build a climax or help sus­
tain one. The percussion sometimes aids in this buildup using an ostinato or
other kinds of repeated gestures. Alternatively, the percussion may be held back
until the climactic moment. Of the three examples of successful climaxes given
here, the first two show how to use the percussion to build a climax and the last
to add to the climax at the last minute. There are many instances of such cli­
maxes, among them Wagner's Overture to Rienzi, measures 47-65; William
Schuman's New England Triptych, first movement, measures 235-269; and
Joseph Schwantner's. . . and the mountains rising nowhere, measures 91-120.

Building or Sustaining a Climax
Debussy, Nocturnes, "Fetes." At [lO], an extremely soft, steady eighth-note
beat begins in the timpani, supported by harps and pizzicato strings. This beat
continues under the theme until [П], when the timpani change to single strokes
on the beginning of each beat only. A steady crescendo underlies the melodic
fragments heard in the winds and horns from [l2] to [Тз1, at the end of which
3

3

the timpani ostinato turns into the main rhythmic figure J Г Л Г Ш , which
keeps driving toward the climax at f l 4 j The timpani are aided in this buildup by
two other members of the percussion section: the snare drum, which enters at
two measures before [Тз|, and the cymbals, at [Тз|.
e x a m p l e 1 4 - 2 1 . Debussy, Nocturnes, "Fetes," from [lO] to [l4]

CD-5/TR. 1 6

Modere mais toujours tres rhythme

Hp.l -

pH

Ш=
й
Щ Ш Щr~ r

PPP

Hp
—
HM
Ml 1

:

=SP=3=^ ^

j

~ Л

=

=

—

Hp. 2 -

Timp.
PPP

Vic.

pizz.
PP
pizz.

Vic.1

—3 ~

3— —и~Z. ~
PP

Div.

. - j 1 . 4 *1
T 3 7 3-

.

3

i' , 5 4 7 a -3 d

7 3 7— j

Jl.

Jll

. j> . j >i
7 3 7 -3 - - 1 J

3 7J * =

7 3=

7—

\ф ф 4

D.B.

PPP

5 13

PRACTICE

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N WITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

IN P RACTI CE
ORCHESTRATION

514

th e

Stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

PRACrIC
IN

5 15

ORCHESTRATION

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N W ITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

5 16

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

IN P R A C I I C E

5 17

O R C H E S T R A T IO N

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N W ITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN' P R A C T I C E

ORCHESTRATION

IN P R A C T I C E

PRACTICE
IN

521

ORCHESTRATION

S c o r i n g f o r P e r c u s s io n w it h K e y b o a r d a l o n e o r in C o m b in a t io n

PR A CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

522

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

The climax is broken off suddenly at the change to § at the end of the excerpt,
when material heard at the beginning of the piece returns (not shown here).
Warren Benson, Symphony fo r Drums and Wind Orchestra. This is an un­
usually fine example of a sustained climax kept alive by the percussion section
only. The orchestra dies out at the climax at (N], but the repeated rhythmic mo­
tives in the percussion parts, previously heard separately in this movement and
now heard in combination, create an effective extension of the climax. The de­
vice of letting a movement die out with percussion is certainly a contemporary
one, and this particularly lengthy decay is most powerful.

AIlegro(J = 180)

-------я

Ц Щ ЁЁ

PR ACTICE
IN

e x a m p l e 1 4 -22 . W. Benson, Symphony for Drums and Wind Orchestra, third
movement, 3 mm. before [M] to end

523

HON

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N WITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

ORCHESTRAT

524

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

p r a c t i c e

525

j

T l u :

J

[Г Г Л 'Г Т

J

I

»

J

V

>

V

Timp.

^

_____ „ > •

Perc. 1
Perc. 3

A1

V 1

A1

=r—

>•
— > >---- 31- .-P f -fc=#=i

>

-t -|*= f

Perc. 2

- ГVm4Г JГ ГL-LJ
Perc. 3 r.y
U L ■ 1 ' »~ ГТ? J*-f
—1■■
Г Г гL-J
Т ГцГ
FMddc
Ц :Л

Perc. 4

Timp.
Perc. 1

(

-x

-

=

— щГт = = ^ *

»

L -E -J -

f

Perc. 3

•У-L .L J - Ц ./ - г / - Ц .. г Ц

Perc. 4

Д.,. jfcat. Ж J r~M J-J-J-

>

..

г CJ

г : -

=

-I

^ -г -___ >___ г_
^ = = ^ ]!.7 '

-------гиа
»■___ ?usrts
ЬЬЫ М — :Т Ш Т т L -2— _— ш^— . ?*...... ; __
Г Г Г ? !■ f -s-FT f - f г.Г f г~г ^~г~'Г Г"
^
- LJ-J [ J 1—1—
Luted—
f * 1 J r UdJ L J —

£ T 3 -j-J J -

4 W

_ js_>------a-— _ > *

^

J

>

>>

^ % У * -5Г- P - P 4 --- =* r j - J sr-U^ T -v ■=*
»
^ > ■ »—
-> -

Perc. 2

T — Г— Г 1
i i r

J 1- |
j
1i f ' j i > f- г - +■ -1|Г Т Т Я
= + J - V .X - - - - -

’ A

Лi
. к A11
A

Perc. 1

i t u u - ' - l

t e s = i 4 l^ v - f S = t = q

' ">
A A1!

Timp.

:

„

>

— t —
- ^ ;

I J- |.J^Ti _£ l.ji - j =3
Г— ^— ^ 7 ' > ^ T
j ■■■
>> > >

>-ы

>•
Г_-

-ф = ф =

>>

---- a---- » > ------г----- > >

ЩГ---- =
• f ---- — - r ------------ > . -J>
->
>_
Г- L L f r j M J L- J - - L L b f ^
^

L

L

R

L

b

>>

— V
-V —
>
>
>■ >•
>
ш - е_ ц ~ ej=t=^= -l- H

-J-J-ji J -Ы J j -я i i.-j V — У --» ..йгУдг_л? W -кД—j J J
2woodstbc R

>

/

J

W

J

>

■» J..M

>

d -d ■

R

Perc. 5

L l^ l--: J. J J J i = J
ff

"f

Jtr * p

/

ЩГ

/

JT

цГ

ГТ"

Г

f

Dying ewiy gradually to «

Timp.

Z

>

J

r

■-

Perc. 1

,

» >----- a----- —— :

I

i

\

\

4Ц1 4 ~ ^ P ~
>

>>

>

Г --Г

,

u> >

> ___ > >

Perc. 2
Perc. 3

>
>
>
П
У - !Г J- Г Jг У * * - » д

> . =
f ГЧ

—
Perc. 4

>

> >

>

- =

^ s :f ' 1
^

Perc. 5
JT

«*>

V

-r = r =

- ^ =

>

>

>

V

J"

>

bjb

Г J~P
f~f —
—L
tJГ-£j—

m=

> >

>■

>

ORCHESTRATION

]

V

in

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S I O N WITH K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B IN A T IO N

O r c h e s t r a t io n

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

к A
A

4

A

JJT T r.

A

py. * j j '-> j [■ J |

A

Timp.

o f

, . к A

IN P R A C T I C E

The S tudy

A

Fere. 1
Perc. 2

Perc. 5

^------2:-- >r >

fl- Я Л J j } j j j
■" >" V ......

>

>

>

>

A

Вггс. 4

—>

Г

Perc. 3

I:

O R C H E S T R A T IO N

52 6

I [ -Г1 1 I i ГР- ~n п m r n
>
>
»
»
>■ " 'Ъ. ■ >

4

i

l"H .F=i=

r Г ------—
--T~F~
JJJJJ J

>

>

1J J L^=

>

Л

>

J

>

>

jr i :

>

J J J,,. 3=3==

Holding Back Until the Climactic Moment
One of the most carefully and masterfully planned climaxes occurs at the
end of Brahms's Symphony No. 2. Brahms's restraint in using the timpani is re­
warded by one of the most thrilling and powerful endings in the symphonic lit­
erature. Of course, the excellent brass (trombone, tuba) writing helps, but the
delayed entrance of the timpani is what makes this climax work.

1 4 - 2 3 . Brahms, Symphony No. 2, fourth movement, m. 392-end

ЭЭ1 I DVMd

exam ple

N 1 NOIXVM .LSaHDtJO

fo r

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo ard A lo n e o r

in

C o m b in a t io n

529

ORCHESTRATI ON

S c o r in g

Creating a Dramatic Beginning
We mentioned that a dramatic moment may come at the very beginning of a piece
or movement. In this regard, a percussion sound can be a great "ear-opener."
Here are several effective beginnings using various percussion instruments.
Rossini was a great showman and opened his famous overture to La Gazza
ladra with an echo effect performed on the snare drum. The tradition of having
two performers play this opening in antiphony is said to date back to the earli­
est performances of the work and is usually followed in performances today,
even though this setup is not indicated in many editions of the score. One snare
drum is placed to the left of the orchestra and plays the first measure at a forte
dynamic; another is placed to the right and echoes the gesture at a piano dy­
namic. Then the two combine in measure 3 to effect a crescendo to forte.

530

T h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

e x a m p le

CD-5/TR. 19

14 - 2 4 . Rossini, La Gazza ladra, Overture, m m . 1-12

Picc.l

№
/Г\

FU

0 f^

^

о.

Ob.

r\

r
да.

t r n r

f ---------- ^

1

ff
г г гг г
__ч JT
р

Г Г

F F
^Ч U 1 1

г

----V

2EHn.

/7\

..

*
i n n

у I-J 1 1

2 G fin.'

ATpt.

1

£ »■ т» Ф Jp- f-f f Р

Bsn.

лч

r

/Т\

ff

Р

П

1

=4= ^ = 4= M
f Ff
=f L r r r

ff

Trb. 1,2

Trb. 3 \
Tba.
Timp.

Trgl.

S. Dr.

Bs. Dr.

Vln. 11
vin. г(
Via.

Vic. (

D.B. \

г\
ii

~

ff
г

- ^

т-

1 n

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

K eybo ard A lo n e

or

in

C o m b in a t io n

531

IN P R A C IIC E

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T IO N

S c o r in g

532

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

The percussion does not have to be loud to be dramatically effective. At the
beginning of his violin concerto Beethoven writes a very novel musical gesture.
The timpani introduce the entire work, emerging out of silence with a four-note
motive that is played very quietly, creating a rather mysterious atmosphere.
Few if any major works before this time used the same effect, and most critics
contemporary with Beethoven commented on its fresh sound.
C D -5/T R. 2 0

example

1 4 - 2 5 . Beethoven, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 1-10

A cymbal crash is a surefire way to change a mood suddenly or to wake up
an audience after a slow or soft movement. The longer cymbal crash at the be­
ginning of the finale to Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 4 certainly succeeds in
performing this task. With a short stroke the crash cymbals then cut off the first
long run in measure 4, and with another longer crash restart the repetition of
that run in measure 5. Here tradition again enters the picture: in both measures
1 and 5 an eighth note is notated but the performer usually lets the cymbals vi­
brate; measure 4 is notated the same way, but there the cymbals are choked im­
mediately so as not to intrude on the silence of beats 3 and 4 of that measure. To
ensure a difference between the two modes of performance, a composer or orchestrator could put a slur or the designation l.v. in measures 1 and 5 and place
a dot over the eighth note in measure 4. This would make the composer's inten­
tion instantly clear to the player.

1 4 - 2 6 . Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 1-8

CD-5/TR. 2 1

Allegro con fuoco.
O R C H E S T R A T IO N

example

533

IN P R A C T IC E

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S IO N W IT H K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B I N A T IO N

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

534

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

P e r c u s s io n

w it h

Keybo a rd Alo n e

o r in

C o m b in a t io n

e x a m p le

1 4 - 2 7 . Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5, fourth movement, at [97]
Allegro non troppo J = 88

IN

Shostakovich writes a blockbuster beginning to the Finale of his Symphony
No. 5. Emerging out of a tremendous crescendo in measure 1, the timpani over­
whelm the entire orchestra and lay down an eighth-note ostinato under the ex­
position of the main theme. For all who have experienced this work, the power
of this particular opening is unforgettable.

535

P R A C TIC L

fo r

c d -str.

22

ORCHESTRATION

s c o r in g

IN P R A C T IC E
ORCHESTRATION

536

The S tudy o f

o r c h e s t r a t io n

Coloring Pitches or Passages
Percussion is often used to color specific pitches or rhythms played by other or­
chestral members. In the following example by Stravinsky, an entire section of a
work, colored by timpani, bass drum, and tam-tam, gives the effect of a ponder­
ous procession (cortege).
exam ple

C D -5/ T R . 2 3

mm. 1-14
Pesante

1 4 - 2 8 . Stravinsky, Le Sacre du printemps, Part I, "Cortege d u sage,"

PRA CTICE

537

ORCHESTRATION

IN

s c o r i n g f o r P e r c u s s i o n w i t h K e y b o a r d A l o n e o r in c o m b i n a t i o n

BtTha. 1,2
ТЪа.

Tam-Tam

sempre marc.

Tutti div

IN P R A C T I C E
O R C H E S T R A T IO N

538

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

9

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C llC E

540

t h e S tu d y o f O rc h e s tra tio n

The ethereal quality at the end of the following piece is greatly enhanced by
the introduction of the antique cymbals (or crotales), which double the third
horns on the pedal note E that underlies Debussy's typically French and slightly
dissonant cadential figure. The antique cymbals actually become the most
prominent instrumental color at the end of the piece.
e x a m p l e 1 4 - 2 9 . Debussy, Prelude a “L'apres-midi d’un faune," m m . 106-110
Trfes len t e t trfes retenu Jusqu’A la fin

mrdines

mrdines

solo Vic.

Leslie Bassett uses two keyboard instruments and harp to color each chord
change in the upper strings.

IN PRACTICE
ORCHESTRATION

example 14-30. L. Bassett, Variations for Orchestra, 1 mm. before |PP] to 4
mm. after |PP)

T h e S tu d y o f o rc h e s tra tio n

The following little dance variation is a marvelous example of a composer
deploying the percussion section as an integral part of the musical material. The
entire percussion section, used with great ingenuity and taste, colors the whole
atmosphere of the piece and even takes over the thematic material. In Example
14-31 the timpani emphasize the string pizzicato portion of the opening theme,
and this economical use of the wood block becomes an integral part of the
theme, heard right along with the string pizzicato each time the theme returns.
At measure 821 (Example 14-32) the wood block's formerly spare part is ex­
panded to a solo, creating a most satisfying conclusion to this section.

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PR A C TIC E

542

C D -5/T R. 2 6

example

1 4 - 3 1 . Bernstein, Fancy Free, "Danzon," m m . 737-743

C D -5 fT R . 2 7

ORCHESTRATION

e x a m p l e 1 4 - 3 2 . Bernstein, Fancy Free, "Danzon," m m . 820-830

543

in

S C O R IN G F O R P E R C U S S IO N W IT H K E Y B O A R D A L O N E O R IN C O M B I N A T I O N

^ХЦЛХШДЛP
Vln. 1

Vln. 2

__ i J h

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

54 4

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

PA R T TWO

O R C H E S T R A T IO N
■

ш

н

н

ш

н

н

н

а н

м

н

м

ш

PRA CTICE
IN

sc o r in g

fo r

5

Orch estra

Scoring for orchestra is thinking for orchestra. When dealing with a composite
instrument like the orchestra you must be completely familiar with the charac­
ter and quality of the orchestra's components: the range and limitations of each
instrument as well as how that instrument will sound alone and in combination
with other instruments. The timbre, strength, and texture of every segment of
the instrument's range become crucial when you are creating orchestral color
combinations.
The art critic Jacques Maroges has said, "The greatest colorists have always
obtained the maximum brilliance and vibration with a minimum of color."*
This is an important axiom to remember as we analyze the use of the entire or­
chestra in this chapter. Inexperienced orchestrators sometimes use such a great
variety of different effects, creating a constant flux of color and texture, that the
structure of the work is often put in jeopardy. We will see that carefully balanc­
ing orchestral colors and defining the musical elements by means of the orches­
tration instead will help to clarify musical organization and yield the very best
orchestral sound. The great orchestrators of the past and present also realized
that a listener can tire very easily of the monotony created by hearing all orches­
tral choirs play together for too long a time in a seemingly never-ending orches­
tral tutti. But inexperienced orchestrators often fall into this very trap.
One of the major functions of the orchestration of an extended work is to
help clarify the form of the entire piece.* In this chapter we will examine how
some of the great orchestrators have scored the most effective tutti; scored fore­
ground, middleground, and background material; handled a purely polyphonic
section; and dealt with newer techniques, such as pointillistic or Klangfarben
scoring and pitch colorings. We will isolate each passage's major structural ele­
ments and examine the passage's orchestral setting. Studying these excerpts in
the context of examining the works' larger formal structures, including their
major themes or main gestures (melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic), can reveal
how the various orchestrational techniques employed by these composers in­
deed help to strengthen the works' formal structures.

"Quoted by Joyce Cary in Art and Reality: Ways of the Creative Process (New York: Harper
Brothers, 1958), 107.
*№> matter how imaginative and colorful the orchestration, however, it cannot save a
badly composed piece of music: "Only that which is well written can be well orchestrated."
(Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov, in his preface to Principles of Orchestration, trans. by Edward Agate
[New York: Kalmus, n.d.], vii.)
547

ORCHESTRATION

1

IN PRACTI CE
O R C H E S T R A TIO N

54 8

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

T h e U n is o n -O c t a v e T u tti
We will begin by examining the textural technique of using tutti. The Italian
word tutti refers to the simultaneous use of most or all orchestral instruments.
We usually find two kinds of tutti sections: (1) the partial tutti, using only some
of the instruments at hand; and (2) the full tutti, using every (or almost every)
orchestral instrument simultaneously.
The following excerpts show effective orchestral tutti using unisons or oc­
taves. We will analyze each one separately to isolate the various devices used to
create this powerful effect.

The Unison Tutti
Very few unison tutti exist because of the limitations of instrumental ranges. In
the partial unison tutti shown in Example 15-1, we see that the composer has
omitted the flutes and oboes, since their ranges do not extend downward far
enough to play the entire passage. A composer today, however, might have
used the oboes to emphasize the s f in measure 211 as well as perhaps a muted
trumpet to give this accent a special flavor. But although a modem composer
might have also assigned the trumpets to play the entire excerpt they would not
be in their best register. Notice that the trombones in the original score are
marked ppp so as not to dominate the entire orchestra. The violins' pitches,
which here are all assigned to the G string ("4e corde"), strengthen the power of
this unison passage. The composer may have left out the double basses, even
though they could have played this unison tutti at pitch, because they would
have had difficulty keeping the high notes in tune; in addition, their weak
sound in this high register would contribute little to the resulting orchestral
sound.
The variously articulated lines in the strings and trombones, as well as the
tremolo in the violas (curiously the only instrument to have one), add tension to
the smooth, slurred line of the winds and horns. This imaginative undercurrent
of activity adds subtle flavor to an otherwise single-minded melodic statement.

The Octave Tutti
Example 15-2 (page 550) shows a full tutti in octaves starting at measure 130, at
the climax or end of the first section of the symphony. Barber orchestrates the
crescendo by adding brass instruments and timpani to double the pitch D that
is played by the rest of the orchestra. This unison crescendo climaxes in mea­
sures 131-132, when the germinal idea of the section returns in a multi-octave
spread. The solo timpani reiterates the idea in measure 133, which is followed
by a unison/octave orchestral glissando. Here Barber very subtly enlarges the
doubling in order to exploit varied instrumental timbres.

1 5 -i .

D'lndy, Istar, m m . 206-216 (strings only recorded)

Moderate 207

CO -5/TR . 2 8

IN P R A C T IC E

e x a m p l e

549

O R C H E S T R A TIO N

s c o rin g f o r O rc h e s tra

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

550

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Notice these details:

IN

P R A C T I C E

552

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

1. If we listen to the whole movement we hear that the octave skip is a major
gesture in this first part of the symphony. Barber could have exploited this
characteristic in the measures given above and written an octave skip in the
horns, lower trombones, and tuba to help make the crescendo in measure
130, but he didn't. Perhaps he felt it would make the gesture too forceful.
But by measure 135 the horns are playing in their high register, so we can as­
sume he reserved the full force of their sound for the descending glissando.
2. He wisely cuts out the piccolo and flutes on the descending glissando, sub­
stituting the violins, so they won't be forced to drop out on the unison Bl>3,
the highest note in measure 136.
3. The trombones and tuba are also omitted in measure 135, for they would
make the glissando too heavy. In addition, they cannot play the high D, a
note so poignantly articulated by the high horns.
4. The entrance of the third trombone, tuba, and timpani on the low Bl> (mea­
sure 136) reinforces the finality of the phrase.

The Multi-Octave Tutti
The orchestral unison spread over several octaves has always been popular and
frequently has been called on to introduce a new idea, summarize an old one,
or, as in the following example, to state a major melodic gesture before it is de­
veloped contrapuntally. Here, Mozart uses a partial multi-octave tutti, leaving
out the natural horns since they could not play many of the melody notes.
C D -5/ T R . 3 0

ex a m ple

1 5 - 3 . Mozart, Symphony No. 40, fourth movement, mm. 125-132

Allegro assai

What is interesting about the spacing of this octave tutti is its variety. At
first, Violins 1 and 2 play in unison with the flute and two oboes, while the oc­
tave immediately below is scored rather sparsely for the violas and clarinets
only; the octave below that is scored more heavily for the cellos and both bas­
soons, which is supported yet an octave lower by the double basses. Then, from
measure 128 on Mozart divides the orchestra differently, scoring the middle
register more heavily, particularly in measures 128-129.
By his orchestration it is clear that Mozart wants the listener to hear the
theme as:
ex a m p le

1 5 - 4 . The Way Mozart Intended His Theme To Be Heard
•

к2

''
3

Thus, in measures 130-132 the flute, oboe, and clarinet, which double the violins
an octave higher, add extra sheen and brilliance to the upper strings' m a i n
melody line. From this subtie change in doubling we can leam a great deal
about how the orchestration clarifies a composer's intentions. If, for instance,
Mozart had put these three wind instruments in the same register as the violins,
he would have had to drop out the flute and oboe on the final note of the pas­
sage (in addition, the oboes would have added too much of a raucous quality to
the Cf4). These instruments fill out the space much better in the register where
they are written, and the flute is not left alone in its upper register. Through his
careful distribution of the pitches among the instruments, Mozart accomplishes
his intention of having the gesture heard as written above.

T h e s t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

In Example 15-5 we see a full orchestral tutti constrained by limitations of
the instruments and playing conventions current when the piece was com-

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

554

c d -5A t r . 3 1

e x a m p le

1 5 -5 .

Beethoven, Symphony No. 9 , first movement, mm. 1 6 - 2 1

A l l e g r o

m a

n o n

t r o p p o

PRACTICE
IN

posed; in particular notice the trumpet, horn, flute, and violin parts. If this pow­
erful passage were written today it probably would have been scored differ­
ently (but not necessarily better!). For instance, a piccolo might have been
assigned to play the anacrusis on the pitch D7 to emphasize the all-important
falling 4th; the first flute probably would have been asked also to play the top D,
possible on today's instruments; the first violins perhaps would have been
placed an octave higher (a register that was rarely, if ever, used in Beethoven's
time); and the trumpets and all four horns would have been asked to perform
the entire passage in octaves with the rest of the orchestra. In addition, five tim­
pani could be assigned today, so that almost every melody note in the passage
could be played by this instrument.
Even though Beethoven did not have most of these options at hand, he
wrote a remarkable climax. He used the limitations of Horns 3 and 4, trumpets,
and timpani to great advantage, not only to emphasize the power of the final D
in measure 21 but also to recall the open 5th and 4th heard at the beginning of
the movement. Notice which notes are doubled and which are not. Notice also
that the flutes do not double the violins, oboes, and clarinets at pitch but are
placed an octave above them. This orchestral thinking is quite forward-look­
ing, for the flute part is so high that it pierces through the rest of the orchestral
texture.
Examine every instrumental line separately to ascertain exactly why, from
your knowledge of the ranges of instruments used in Beethoven's time, certain
instruments deviate, in terms of octave placement, from the melody as played
by the strings. Studying Beethoven's orchestration in these measures can teach
us some valuable lessons about the strengths and weaknesses of certain instru­
mental registers, such as that of the flutes from measure 18 on, which need to
double each other to give added weight to their line; the voicing of the oboes
and clarinets (in order to strengthen the register played by the first clarinet and
oboes at the very end of measure 18, the second clarinet -jumps up a 10th, even
though it could have continued to play in its lower octave); and the limited
notes available to the Bl>horn in this key.
The final example, by Smetana, begins with a forceful melodic tutti that in
measure 8 turns into a lively melodic figure punctuated by repeated chords in
the brass. The sustained brass harmony throughout this passage provides cohe­
sion to the tutti passage. The woodwinds and strings would sound sprightly and
exuberant on their own from measure 8 on, but the bright, full brass sound en­
hances those qualities, rendering the atmosphere even more like a celebration.
How would a composer of today orchestrate this passage? Perhaps the
trumpets and horns would play the melody in unison and octaves with the
woodwinds and strings, but this would make the eighth-note melody sound
much too sluggish, taking the lightness out of the passage. He or she could sim­
ply remove the chordal punctuations starting in measure 8 or leave out the
brass altogether, which would made the passage sound more brittle. Or he or
she could add a xylophone to give added "ping" to the woodwinds' eighth
notes, but that would not be stylistically true to Smetana's mid-nineteenthcentury orchestra. Smetana's solution gives the very agile instruments an op­
portunity to show off in their best registers. The harmonic implications of the
melody instruments' eighth-note figure are realized by the sustaining brass
chords, creating a thrilling opening to the work.

555

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

556

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

c d -5 / t r . 3 2

e x a m p le

15-6 .

Smetana, The Bartered Bride, Overture, mm. 1-12

PRACTICE
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

558

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

T h e D is t r ib u t io n o f F o r e g r o u n d —
Mi d d l e g r o u n d — B a c k g r o u n d
ELEM E N T S WITHIN TH E O R C H EST R A
In previous chapters we discussed orchestrating foreground, middleground,
and background elements within each individual section of the orchestra, as
well as within some combinations of these sections. In this chapter we will show
how the orchestration of full orchestral forces effectively clarifies foreground,
middleground, and background. We will use these terms to describe textures
that clearly demonstrate the more traditional concept of melody with accompa­
niment, strictly homophonic chordal textures, and those more polyphonic tex­
tures made up of two or more distinct musical ideas, one of which is often more
melodically prominent than the others.

Within a Homophonic Texture
In this section we will study the following types of homophonic settings for or­
chestra in terms of foreground—background:
1. melody with accompaniment;
2. the voicing of individual chords (spacing and doubling within these chords);
3. the doubling and voice leading within a chordal texture.

Melody with Accompaniment
A most obvious and effective example of melody with accompaniment is
shown in Tchaikovsky's orchestral poem Francesca da Rimini (Example 15-7).
The melody, introduced in the clarinet alone, flows right into a time with a ho­
mophonic string accompaniment. Often, as is the case here, the color of the ac­
companiment contrasts (sometimes in a striking way) with that of the solo
melody instrument. In many instances, however, successful accompaniments
are played by the same instrument as or similar instruments to the carrier of the
solo melody. Here, the string pizzicato contrasts with the clarinet melody, mak­
ing the clarinet sound even warmer. The con sordino designation means little
here, for pizzicato is not affected very much by mutes. However, in the passage
starting with the anacrusis to measure 340, the muted sound of the strings (the
yiolins pick up the clarinet melody, in octaves, played over an accompaniment
provided by the lower strings as well as sustained bassoon, horn, and timpani)
creates a wonderful contrast to the clarinet presentation.
Timing, placement, and assignment of color all come into play in this exam­
ple. Giving a new phrase (with its anacrusis, if it has one) a new instrumental
color, or placing a rest in the music before a new color enters, are two excellent
ways of introducing new melodic elements and making sure they are dearly
perceived. (This is especially true in polyphonic textures, discussed later in this
chapter.) In the Tchaikovsky example, the upbeat to measure 340 introduces the
new violin arco color. A more extreme example is heard in the introduction of
the clarinet all by itself at the beginning of the excerpt; here, it functions as an
eight-measure anacrusis.

A n d a n t e

C D -5 fT R . 3 3

P R A C T I C E

Tchaikovsky, Francesca da Rimini, m m . 3 2 5 - 3 4 9

I N!

325

1 5 -7 .

ACL

d im . et riten u to a d lib itu m
Andante cantabile

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

e x a m p le

PRACTICE

th e

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

O R C H E S T R A T f O N

IN

560

Earlier chapters that discuss the instrumental choirs separately cite other
foreground-background orchestrations. We will give two more examples here.
C D -5/T R. 3 4

ex a m ple

i 5-s. Weber, Der Freischutz, Overture, mm. 1-19

PRACTICE

561

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

Starting in measure 10 in Example 15-8, the strings provide a beautiful ac­
companiment for four horns. In this example, the strings play foreground mate­
rial until one measure before the horn entrance, where they change their role
from foreground to background, the first and second violins playing arpeggiations and the lower strings playing sustained pitches. The horns sound very
fresh here, since this is the first time their color appears in the work.
To understand the orchestral thinking behind the complex scoring in
Example 15-9, we must first look at Mahler's piano version of the music. Notice
that it has only two components: an eighth-note foreground in the right hand

P R A C T I C E

e x a m p l e 1 5-э. Mahler, Kindertotenlieder, "Nun will die Sonn'," mm. 58-61

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

a . P I ANO VERSI ON

C D -S/ T R . 3 5

b . OR C HE S T R AL VERSION

Etwas bewegter (Rubato)

MU leidenschafllichem A usdruck

From the time of Wagner and Mahler to the present, composers have
availed themselves of the huge orchestral forces developed throughout the
nineteenth century. However, on occasion these composers, including Mahler
in his Kindertotenlieder (discussed above), have largely opted not to write for a
large orchestra. But when they do, they emphasize the importance of single in­
struments and their characteristic sounds rather than the lush combinations fa­
vored by other composers. Some believe that treating the large orchestra as a
chamber ensemble is a trend that steps away from effective orchestration. We
believe both types of texture are valid, provided the orchestra is used with
great imagination and skill. If the music is good, the results either way will be
most satisfying.

The Voicing of Chords for Full Orchestra
In earlier chapters we discussed the spacing of chord tones within individ­
ual chords played by the different orchestral choirs; now let us examine chordal
spacing and doubling within successful scorings for complete orchestra. We
have already spoken of the three major spadngs of chords—juxtaposed (or su­
perimposed), interlocked, and enclosed. In the full orchestra, these spacings are
usually combined, as in the following examples. In all of these examples we
have marked like instruments with a bracket to highlight which spacings are
used between instrumental groupings; all notes are shown at concert pitch.
First, we will set down some general rules to follow when orchestrating a
chordal texture:
1. Make the melody notes more prominent than the harmony notes.
2. Assign pitches to the instruments within their best registral positions so that
they can be sounded at the desired dynamic.
3. When doubling notes, find instruments that have an acoustic affinity for one
another. This is especially important when doubling at pitch.
Beethoven, Missa solemnis. In Example 15-10 the tonic chord in measure 1
emphasizes the tonic note D. All the strings—plus the trumpets, three horns,
and timpani on D, and both flutes sounding the higher octave—create a rather
open sound. Only the oboes, clarinets, second horn, and second bassoon play
the other chord tones. Because of their registral distribution they give the im­
pression of realizing the first few overtones of the D fundamental.

P R A C T I C E
IN

and an eighth-note background in the left hand. To this kind of note-againstnote counterpoint we might infer a third element, an implied low D2 pedal; a pi­
anist playing these few measures would use the damper pedal to bring out this
note. In his orchestral version Mahler indeed writes a pedal note into the fourth
horn part and at the beginning, also into the bass clarinet part. The two main
parts of the piano version are distributed among several different instruments.
No two instruments with identical parts play for more than a few notes at a
time. Thus, almost every pitch is colored differently, creating a kind of pointillistic or Klangfarben texture that was later made popular by the expressionists.
(We will learn more about this type of texture later on in this chapter.) Study
this excerpt carefully, and make a list of the doublings used for each gesture—or
even each note—so that these composite sounds will become familiar to your

563

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

S c o rin g f o r o r c h e s t r a

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

The chord in measure 21, on the other hand, sounds fuller because all the
sections play all the notes of the tonic chord. In the actual music the entrance of
the chorus, supported by the organ, occurs here; this, in addition to the sudden
forte dynamic, makes the sound even heavier than what is heard on our record­
ing of this chord, which is played only by the orchestra. Notice that in the dou­
bling of measure 1 the flutes were given the octave above the first violins, while

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

564

C D -5/ T R . 3 6

exam ple

1 5-i o. Beethoven, Missa solemnis, chords from m. 1 and m. 21
u2H.

m. 21

in measure 21 the first flute doubles the first violin at the unison and the second
flute plays the A5 alone. In this most effective spacing, the notes in the upper oc­
tave (D5 to D6) are doubled by single woodwind instruments only; those in the
lower octave (D3 to D4) are doubled by many more instruments and therefore
given more emphasis.
Weber, Der Freischiitz, Overture. Example 15-11 shows the climactic chord
of the main section of Weber's overture. In the actual music this chord is made
more powerful by a string tremolo and a timpani roll.
C D -5/T R . 3 7

exam ple

1 5 - 1 1 . Weber, Der Freischiitz, Overture, m . 284

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

Let's study what makes this chord so effective. The strings are juxtaposed
from the low C3 to high G6. Strangely enough, the second bassoon is the only in­
strument sounding the low C2. The brasses are also juxtaposed; only the oboes
and clarinets are interlocked. In terms of doubling, Weber must have felt that
the second oboe and first trumpet were more similar acoustically than a clarinet
and trumpet. It is interesting to notice which instruments are not doubled at
pitch: Oboe 1, Horns 1 and 4, Trombone 2, and Bassoon 2. The composer obvi­
ously felt that these were in such a good registral position that they would be ef­
fective alone. Consider the spacings in this chord carefully; you may wish to
mimic this when your own work calls for a brilliant chord.
Schumann, Symphony No. 1. Let us now ascertain how Schumann empha­
sizes the melody and handles the voice leading in the chord progression in
Example 15-12. In the actual music Schumann uses double and triple stops to
obtain a sweeping sound in the non divisi strings, enriching these chords with a
ringing effect.
e x a m p l e 1 5 - 1 2 . Schumann, Symphony No. 1, first movement, mm. 3-4

C D -S T R . 3 8

Woodwinds
and Brass

Strings

All pitches in every chord are doubled at least once. All the string notes are dou­
bled by the juxtaposed woodwinds; the horns and trumpets, both in Bl>, play the
only notes they can in this situation—the "horn 5ths."
E X A M P L E 1 5 - 1 3 . Horn 5ths
Horn Sths

> C Tp t.

565

P R A C T IC E

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

C D -5 / T R . 3 9

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

Notice the "academically correct" voice leading of the chords: all 7ths within
the V з chord resolve downward; all tonic and dominant notes remain as com­
mon tones wherever possible, except those involved in the "horn 5ths."* It is in­
teresting that Schumann holds back on the use of trombones and timpani in
these measures in order to build an even heavier chord in the next phrase.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN P R A C T I C E

566

Brahms, Symphony No. 3. Many Romantic composers loved to end their
movements similarly to the way Brahms ended the opening movement to his
third symphony—namely, to assign the top notes of the final chord to the
winds. But trying to articulate the notes Brahms wrote at such as soft dynamic
level, particularly the first flute's high F6, is very difficult, and the chord always
sounds louder than it should.
C D -5/T R. 4 0

exam ple

1 s - 1 4. Brahms, Symphony No. 3, first movement, final chord

The flutes can easily overpower the chordal structure, since they are the only in­
struments playing the two highest notes and are not doubled by other instru­
ments that would neutralize their sharply sounding timbre in this register. If
Brahms had assigned the top octave to the strings instead, with the winds dou­
bling an octave below, this chord would be easier to control. But here he could
not have done so, because the first flute is simply holding over the top pitch
from the previous measure and the strings' previous melodic line is in the same
middle register. The spacing in Brahms's chord, however, gives it a beautifully
luminous sound, which at the same time is warm and mellow; that only the
flutes explore the highest register and ah the other instruments play in their mid
to low registers also creates a clear separation between high and low at the end
of this movement.
For an earlier passage (at the return of the main theme) we give a piano re­
duction of the full score as well as the score itself.

’ C om posers used this d evice when w riting parts for natural trum pets and horns. T he first,
second, and third scale degrees of a m elody w ere harm onized by the intervals o f a un ison or
6th on the first pitch, a 5th on the second, and a 3rd on the third. This harm onization w as used
so frequently in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries that it becam e know n as "h o rn 5th s,"
even though only th e m id dle interval w as an actual 5th. (See also Exam ple 9-9, above.)

1 5-1

s . Brahms, Symphony No. 3 , first movement, mm. 1 8 3 - 1 8 7

IN

e x a m p le

567

PRACTICE

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s tr a

b . FULL SCORE

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

a . REDUCTI ON

CD-5/TR. 4 1

T he stu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

The brilliance of the scoring in this passage neither overwhelms nor overshad­
ows the first and second violins' tune because they are in their best registers.
The high flutes reinforce this tune by doubling the melody notes that occur at
the beginning of each measure. Notice that each chord is fully represented in all
the choirs and in every octave, from C2 to F6. We advise you to make your own
reduction of the wind and brass chords to find out exactly which notes are dou­
bled and how the voice leading operates in these measures.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

568

Mahler, Symphony No. 1. At the end of Mahler's Symphony No. 1
(Example 15-16) we find a most brilliant chordal sound, aided by string tremo­
los, rolls in the timpani and triangle, and a cymbal crash. Notice that all the
upper octaves contain all chord tones; only the lowest octave, played by the cel­
los, double basses, tuba, third trombone, and timpani, contain tonic notes only.
The sparkling sound is created by the high brass, aided by the doublings one
and two octaves higher in the violins, flutes, and piccolos.
C D -5/T R. 4 2

exa m ple

15-16. Mahler, Symphony No. 1, fourth movement, mm. 723-727

Debussy, La Mer. We will now study a chord that must be voiced by the
composer in such a way that the performers can articulate a fortissimo sound and
then diminish to pianissimo. To make this happen the composer must distribute
the pitches among those instruments that can manipulate the dynamic of the
notes given to them. In La Mer, Debussy does this brilliantly. The highest note
(At6) is assigned to the first violin, piccolo, and harp. Playing a note this high is
no problem for the violins, which are able to play any note softly, high or low;
the piccolo can do this as well, since it is in a nonexposed register where it

can keep this note, written

O rc h estra

, under perfect control. The harp provides a

e x a m p l e

15-17. Debussy, La Mer, second movement, "Jeux de vagues," 4 mm.

Doubling Within a Chordal Texture
Before we proceed to an examination of doubling within chordal passages
from the literature, we will briefly summarize the reasons for and results of
doubling. There are basically two reasons;
1. to raise the dynamic level;
2. to provide subtle coloristic nuances.
Remember that:
1. Doublings at pitch usually result in the loss of individual color characteris­
tics of those instruments involved.
2. Sustained doublings eventually sound tiresome.
3. Octave doublings often give a much clearer, more brilliant result, and also
can raise the dynamic level of the music.
How and what to double is a matter of personal preference and conscious
decision, in which many factors, including those discussed above, must be con­

ORCHESTRATION

series of "pings" that grow softer over the course of four measures. Notice the
big gap between low Cl2 and the rest of the chord, which is juxtaposed in every
choir. The melody note in the two trumpets (El5) comes out brilliantly in this
register; it is doubled at pitch by the second oboe and an octave below by the
English horn. Aside from the low C8 bass notes, this Й and the high A$s are the
only notes doubled at pitch; all the other chord tones sound much softer and re­
tain their own individual colors.

before [29]

569

P R A C T I C E

fo r

IN

S c o r in g

C D -5/ T R . 4 3

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

sidered. Beethoven, for instance, often used octave doublings to raise the dy­
namic level of a passage. Mozart, Mendelssohn, Debussy, and Ravel preferred
unmixed, pure, soloistic sounds for melodies, but on occasion they also used oc­
tave doublings and sometimes very subtle blends. Rimsky-Korsakov favored
timbral mixings and large combinations of unison doublings. We should always
make our choices of doubling from a position of knowledge and experience.
Studying the various possible timbral combinations in the best scores of the past
and present can help us gain this knowledge as well as make the most judicious
choices.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN P R A C T I C E

570

Unison Doublings. Unison doublings on the same instrument sometimes
give an unusual effect to the tone. Because two, three, or four like instruments
cannot always play precisely in time with each other, their combined sound cre­
ates many inharmonic partials, which lessen the clarity of the instrument's
upper overtones, give a "flatness" to the resulting tones, and diminish the dy­
namic level of the sound. Many composers consciously seek this effect, as in the
following example from Mahler's Symphony No. 4. Here, four flutes play a
shrieking, pleading melody that pierces through the thin orchestral texture
lying beneath; the minute intonational differences of the flutes, however, also
give this passage a beautifully warm quality.
C D -S/ T R . 4 4

e x a m p l e

126

15 1 8 . Mahler, Symphony No. 4, first movement, mm. 126-141
Fliessend, aber ohne Hast.

If this passage were played by just one flute, it would sound just as loud but
also too clean and clear to suit Mahler's intent.
Octave Doublings. One excellent example of using octave doubling to raise
the dynamic level is found in Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Juliet (Example 15-19).
The trumpets play the melody a 2 at pitch, while the accompanying chords, all
doubled throughout the orchestra, powerfully punctuate their line. Here the
brilliance and forcefulness of the chords is the desired effect, not the subtleties
of its inherent colors.
As in this example, the ear is able to distinguish between two ideas pre­
sented simultaneously if they are scored with opposing timbres and differing
rhythmic gestures. If you use orchestration to clarify your musical ideas you
will achieve the desired result.

15 *1 9. Tchaikovsky, Romeo and Juliet, mm. 334-337

C D -5/ T R . 4 5
IN

e x a m p l e

571

P R A C T I C E

S C O R IN G F O R O R C H E S T R A

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

334

Allegro giusto

572

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

The next very simple example begins as a unison melodic statement (actually
in octaves) over a tonic (and dominant, in the timpani) pedal. Starting in mea­
sure 174 the melody is carried on in the strings while the rest of the orchestra
provides the chordal harmony. The transition from unison to a thicker harmonic
texture is facilitated by the sustained pedal tones in the brass and timpani. Notice
the wide separation between the pitches of the first flute and strings, and from
measure 174 on, between both flutes and strings. Notice, too, the reluctance of
the strings to break into harmony, a factor that readies them to begin the J J j J
figuration. These color and textural divisions make it much easier for the ear to
separate melody from the harmony (foreground from background).
CD-S/TR. 4 6

e x a m p l e

1 5-20. Schubert, Symphony No. 8, first movement, mm. 170-176
Allegro moderate

O R C H E ST R A TIO N

IN

The exquisite passage that recurs three times in the fourth movement of
Mahler's Symphony No. 4 is scored differently each time it appears. Mahler cre­
ates the heavenly quality of this partial tutti with triads moving in parallel mo­
tion, with contrary motion in the bass in the last excerpt. Compare the
combinations of instruments in each of the three scorings. The different colorings
illustrate an essential aspect of great orchestral thinking: even though much timbral variety is provided, the recognizable texture and similar chord structure that
mark the passage's reiterations help this recurring statement unify the movement.
1. Measures 36-39: In the first three measures the harmony underlying the
singer's line is given to the flute in its middle register, two muted horns, two
low open horns, and harp playing in octaves.
exa m ple

1 5-21. Mahler, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 36-39
Plotzlich zuruckhaltend

FHn. 1,3

F Hn. 2,4*

Cymb.

Fe

- ter

im

Him - mel sieht

zu!
mit D&mpfer

Solo Vln.

mit Dampfer

mit Dampfer

arco
*to be transposed up a perfect 4th.

pp

573

P R A C T I C E

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

CD-5/TR. 4 7

T H E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRA TIO N

The muted strings are reserved for the final open 5th sound. Notice that in
this example, as well as Example 15-23, a soft cymbal roll with brushes ac­
companies the first three measures of the passage.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

574

2. Measures 73-76: This version features the strings as the main accompani­
ment, with a beautiful assist from the low piccolo. The harp writing, first in
3rds, then in octaves, adds to the smooth unison writing in measures 73-74.
The softness of this version is aided by a complete D major chord in measure
76 rather than the hollow, open 5th sound of the previous example.
C D -5/T R. 4 8

E X A M P L E 1 5 - 2 2 . Mahler, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 72-76
W i e d e r

z u r i i c k h a l t e n d

73

e x a m p l e 15 - 2 3 . Mahler, Symphony No. 4, fourth movement, mm. 106-111

*to be transposed up a perfect 4th.

The noble beginning of the prelude in the next example illustrates how to
create a dark, loud, majestic color through the orchestration of several semi­
independent parts for different instruments. The constantly interchanging parts
in this example are characteristic of Wagner's scoring.
Let's examine the first chord. The strings play only an initial, powerful chord
using multiple stops. Wagner uses the violins and violas to give a strong accent
to the beginning of themelody in measure 1, but then discontinues these instru­
ments until measure 2, where they join the winds in playing the time. This
melody is given first to the trumpets, which are doubled at pitch by acoustically
compatible instruments—two oboes and two clarinets—creating a combination
reminiscent of the heavy, dark color often associated with band music.

P R A C T I C E
IN

3. Measures 106-111: The final repetition of the phrase is extended and colored
in two very distinct ways: first, by very soft brasses with harp (this time the
harp, with Horns 2 and 4, moves in contrary motion to the parallel brass
chords); then by a lovely, but rare combination: flutes, clarinets, and muted
double basses. The harp is the only constant between the two phrases.

575

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

576

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

c d - s / t r . 50

EXAM PLE

1 5 - 2 4 . Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Prelude, mm. 1-9

P R A C T I C E

577

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

In measure 2 the trumpets drop out, and are later assigned the secondary role of
providing harmonic background in a register where they cannot disturb the
stately quality of the passage. One may speculate that Wagner switched the
trumpets from providing the melody to providing the harmonic accompani­
ment because he did not trust the valve trumpets' ability to carry this dignified
melody; more likely, he did not want the first melodic statement in the prelude
to be quite so climactic, for he does give the entire theme to the trumpets later

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

578

T h e s t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

on in the prelude. The grandeur of the initial statement is supplied by the first
and second violins starting in measure 2, and the oboe and clarinet doubling
gives the strings a sharper edge. The inner harmony of these opening measures
is filled out by two bassoons, four horns, the first two trombones, and violas.
This combination sounds very warm and rich. The very solid bass line is en­
trusted to a combination of third trombone, tuba, cellos, and basses in octaves.
This beautifully balanced homophonic phrase is created by instrumental cou­
plings that Wagner chose to greatest advantage and that you may want to add
to your own vocabulary of orchestral sounds.
Study a bit more of the score on your own to see how Wagner cleverly holds
back the upper registers, and how by measure 18 those high registers lighten
the entire atmosphere and build the crescendo.

Within a Polyphonic Texture
We have already discussed handling polyphonic textures in those earlier chap
ters devoted to scoring for the individual orchestral choirs; in Chapter 5 we ob­
served some superb scoring of three diverse elements in the second movement of
Beethoven's Symphony No. 7 (Example 5-20). In this section we will concentrate
on handling foreground, middleground, and background—that is, three or more
main musical elements that sound simultaneously—in an orchestral context. You
will find that mastering the skills needed to create sophisticated polyphonic tex­
tures wiH take you more time than those needed to create homophonic textures.
Mozart, Symphony No. 41 ("Jupiter")
The end of the "Jupiter" Symphony is one of the monumental examples of
polyphonic writing in the Western repertoire. This section introduces five
themes, four of which are treated contrapuntally, with the fifth coming in at the
section's climax. In the fugal section, which begins this excerpt, the four subjects
are introduced successively and then combined in various ways. Here are the
five themes that make up the melodic material of this finale, as Mozart worked
them out in quadruple counterpoint in his own sketchbook.
e x a m p l e 1 5 - 2 5 . The Five Themes in Mozart's Symphony No. 41 ("Jupiter"),
fourth movement, mm. 368-424

ex am p le

1 5 - 2 6 . Mozart, Symphony No. 41 ("Jupiter"), fourth movement, mm.

368-423
Allegro molto

376

O R C H E S T R A T I O N 1 IN

Each of the five gestures has its own characteristic rhythm and melodic profile.
We can easily recognize each theme in the rather complex orchestral texture of
this excerpt. The first theme, a kind of cantus finnus, also appears in the first
and the third movements and serves as a unifying element for the entire sym­
phony.
Now let us go to the score. In measures 372 through 388, Mozart doubles
only the first theme; the other tunes, as they are brought in, are played by only
one section of the string choir. Each rendition of the first theme is colored some­
what differentiy, using one member of the string choir doubled by instruments
of other choirs: (1) bassoons, horns, cellos; (2) flute, oboes, violas; (3) flute,
oboes, second violins; (4) flute, oboes, first violins. In this contrapuntal texture
Mozart treats the double bass as a completely independent member of the en­
semble, which is unusual in the Classical period.

579

P R A C T I C E

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

C D -5/ T R . 5 1

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

580

T h e s t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

e
i c
t

583

o

r

c

h

e s t r a

t i o

n

in

p

r

a

c

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

As the texture thickens, the third theme is strengthened by coupling the vio­
las and cellos in 3rds in measures 382-383, and the violas and second violins in
measures 386-387. By measure 388 the weighty texture brings together all four
themes at once as well as an added pedal in the brass. Once the web of counter­
point becomes truly involved Mozart keeps an established color combination
long enough to play the entire theme intact so that the listener is not overbur­
dened with the task of picking out the main musical ideas from a maze of con­
stantly shifting colors. From measure 389 to measure 400 the following colors
are constant:
1. first violin doubled by flute at pitch (third theme);
2. second violin doubled by first oboe at pitch (third, fourth, then second
themes);
3. violas doubled by second oboe at pitch (fourth, second, then first themes);
4. cellos doubled by first bassoon at pitch (second, first, then third themes);
5. double basses doubled by second bassoon at the octave (first, third, then
fourth themes);
6. horns, trumpets, and timpani providing the cohesive tonic-dominant, nonthematic pedal notes.
The tremendous climax that has been building occurs at measure 402, imme­
diately introducing the fifth theme in an abrupt shift to homophonic texture.
This closing section also emphasizes the fourth theme, played three times in its
entirety (both in unison and with a homophonic accompaniment). Mozart uses
many instrumental doublings here to augment the dynamic level of the passage
as well as to bring out each theme so that it is clearly heard.

P R A C T I C E

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Prelude

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

584

Wagner deverly combines the three thematic elements in the following ex­
cerpt to create an exciting and complex but clear passage. The listener per­
ceives these elements as separate because (1) each is assigned a distinctive
cplor combination; (2) each has a different rhythmic profile; and (3) all three
were heard earlier in the prelude. The two main elements, the broad double
bass and first violin tunes, are heard against an arpeggiated, faster-moving
inner line.
Notice that the color of each theme is made up of a fairly traditional nine­
teenth-century instrumental combination of at least one string, one woodwind,
and one brass instrument:
First theme: double basses, tuba, and two bassoons (the double basses sound
an octave lower);
Second theme: Violin 1, doubled at pitch by the first clarinet and first horn
and doubled an octave lower by the cellos;
Third theme: second violin and viola, two flutes, two oboes, second clarinet,
Horns 2, 3, 4, and second trumpet (playing some of the notes), creating
three voices in harmony, all of which are doubled at the octave.
Another factor that differentiates each theme is the unique articulation Wagner
gives to it:
First theme: each note is articulated separately (in the score, sehr markiert)-,
Second theme: the notes are played legato (sehr ausdrucksvoll [very expres­
sively]);
Third theme: each note is played staccato (immer gleichma(3ig leicht [always
similarly light]).
Studying works such as the Prelude to Die Meistersinger proves that the
best way to emulate the big orchestral sound of the great nineteenth-century
orchestrators, whether the dynamic be forte or piano, is to employ a combina­
tion of instruments from the different orchestral choirs when doubling a pas­
sage. In addition, to ensure clarity in lush orchestrations, give each of the
thematic elements a distinct rhythmic profile. And finally, to help the listener
distinguish between the different elements in a complex orchestral texture, vary
the articulations.

585

P R A C T I C E

1 5 -2 7 . Wagner, Die Meistersinger, Prelude, mm. 158-161

Or ch estra

IN

exam ple

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

s c o r in g

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRA TIO N

Within a Varied Texture

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

586

The next four examples are from works that combine three or more elements
that are not of equal thematic importance. These foreground-middlegroundbackground combinations occur frequently in orchestral literature.
c d - 5 / t r . 53

e x a m p le

arco

i 5 -28.

Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade, fourth movement, mm. 482-493

s c o r in g f o r

Orc h estra

Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade
In Example 15-28, the main theme is played by a poignant combination of
cello in a high register, doubled at pitch by the first two horns and the two clar­
inets an octave higher. The clarinets are in an excellent register to be heard dis­
tinctly. The middleground, a type of dancelike accompaniment, is provided by
the piccolo and two flutes playing double-tongued staccato notes and by the vi­
olins playing spiccato. The background is sustained by the oboes, second bas­
soon, Horns 3 and 4, violas, and double basses; it is arpeggiated by the first
bassoon and violas. The broken chords played by the harp set off the first
phrase from the second and support the final cadence in measure 494 (not
shown here).

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

th e

Holst, The P lan ets, "Jupiter"

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

588

The passage in Example 15-29 expertly combines three musical elements to
create a sparkling, exciting, and virtuosic texture that culminates in the enor­
mous climax occurring in measure 156. The foreground, or main theme, is
played at first by the four trumpets, then repeated by tenor trombones, tenor
and bass tubas, violas, and cellos. The middleground, or secondary theme, is
e x a m p le

C D -5/T R . 5 4

1s - 2 9 .

Holst, The Planets, "Jupiter/' m m . 140-156

Allegro giocoso

Picc.|

F I*

Ob.

т т г

u

BIC1.
Bs. Cl.
a3

Bsn.1

T

ff
Cbsn.1 У

a ,1

j

t

-

J
х

- i

Ь

Ь

ft
*
Щ
*

J
.=j *

7

J

_

= - J —* = p * - * _

:fe- C T I H
JT
— ■*—j—-*—*—-

Hn.

/ J?

:i r

г
f —

Tpt.<

-

-f—|~i~

-Н Ч -

>-rfrtrf^jf\4
tHHff +-EPTf#=(fe

- j - j

^ ■

•Ш34 4 -

r r f r f r ~V

3

13

Ten. Trb.

a2

у non legato
Glsp.

Vln. 1 (

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.

D.B.

ft

^

1

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

aa

589

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

first sounded by two tenor trombones and then by six horns in unison and
Trumpets 1 and 2. The background, or harmonic figuration, gives the passage a
wonderful buoyancy. It is scored for a combination of two piccolos, two flutes,
three oboes, three clarinets, and glockenspiel, which color the violin ostinato.
The rest of the orchestra joins in the big tutti starting in measure 148; the two
trumpets add strength to this melodized harmonic background. The secco-like
chords in measures 140 through 148 and the heavy bass notes of the harmony
from measures 150 to 156 stabilize the rhythmic flow and keep it moving. The
chord at measure 156 sounds glorious after this climactic buildup, helped by its
surprising modulation as well as by the cessation of all motion, while we ex­
pectedly wait for the next event—the brass fanfare.

Bloch, Schelomo
Example 15-30, from Bloch's cello concerto Schelomo, also presents two dis­
tinct melodic ideas with harmonic background. The two main elements, with
their own distinct shapes and rhythmic profiles, however, are more complex
than those in the Holst example, given above. By this time the listener is familiar
with these ideas, which were stated separately earlier in the concerto.
Here are the two main ideas, along with a third—a melodic fragment first
heard at the beginning of the concerto.
ex a m ple

i s - 3 0 . The Melodic Elements in Bloch's Schelomo

In Example 15-31, measure 230, this fragment occurs as a unison melody, but in
octaves. The harmonic implications of this fragment then become the back­
ground in measure 235.
Bloch, like Holst, does not color particular pitches or passages by combining
the different orchestral choirs. Rather, he is more interested in separating the
choirs so that we can perceive the different musical elements as distinct entities.
This type of orchestrational concern has become increasingly popular in the last
one hundred years, especially with American composers.
To build the climax starting in measure 240, Bloch adds the contrabassoon to
the texture, joining the double bass to double the trumpets' and trombones'

FL8
( P lc c .)

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

J = 108-112

P R A C T I C E

EXAMPLE 15-31. Bloch, Schelomo, mm. 228-243

P R A C T I C E
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

Р1й vivo ( J « J)

marc, molto

marc, molto

ц £ marc, molto

marc, molto

Bs. Dr.
beccb. di timpano

marc, molto

PR ACTICE

593

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

S c o r in g f o r o r c h e s t r a

cresc.poco apoco

cresc. poco a poco

P R A C T I C E
IM
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

594

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra
Example 15-32 presents a sophisticated and complex contrapuntal excerpt
whose orchestration is clear and superbly managed, from Schoenberg's Five
Pieces for Orchestra. Schoenberg facilitated the reading of his complex scores by
using special signs to designate the main idea (or ideas): H~ meaning
Hauptstimme (principal voice) and "1 used when that voice ceases to be the main
gesture (in later scores, he also used the sign N” , meaning Nebenstimme, or sub­
sidiary voice*). In this piece he also provides a range of dynamics, indicating
that the principal gestures are to be played louder than the subsidiary ones.
Notice at measures 423-424 the H” part, played by the cello, is marked piano,
while the subsidiary ideas (Trumpet 2, D clarinet, Trombone 3, English horn,
and even the flutes) are marked pianissimo.
In presenting many diverse elements simultaneously, Schoenberg carefully
assigns each fragment to an instrument or group of instruments that can be
clearly heard in the complex texture. Let's look, for instance, at measures
425-438. While the oboe's major gesture in measures 425-426 does not need any
doubling to come through, that played by the flutes and second violins in mea­
sures 431-433 does need the help of the clarinets in measure 432, since the brass
writing is intensified in that measure. In measures 427-429 the first and second
clarinets, and then the oboes, help delineate the Hauptstimme, which the third
clarinet plays in its complete form. Here, this tune might otherwise be obscured
by the mote prominent combination of English horn, Clarinet 2, and violas,
which play a subsidiary but quite active countergesture in measure 429.
Rather than orchestrating by instrumental choir, Schoenberg carefully mixes
the colors of all the choirs to get the most thrilling effect. Many of the doublings
in this excerpt are quite unusual, and you may wish to spend time examining
them carefully and separating out the musical elements to make this treatment
an integral part of your roster of orchestrational techniques. You will see that
the doublings occur only at pitch or one octave apart.

*In the scores created during Schoenberg's later years in the United States, he labeled the
principal voice [F and the secondary voice [s’. See Exam ples 17-18-17-20.

P R A C T I C E
IN

main theme. In addition, the second and third flutes join the first flute in dou­
bling the string section's middleground theme (measure 241). The crescendo
heard in these measures, as well as the one heard earlier just before measure
235, is aided by percussion rolls, first on the timpani and then on the bass drum;
played here with timpani sticks, the bass drum produces a slightly more articu­
late, less heavy sound, that is still somewhat wilder than that coming from the
timpani. The composer wisely marks both percussion instruments piano before
the crescendo; a fortissimo roll not only would obliterate the rest of the orchestra
but also completely change the emphasis of this passage, which combines the
rhythmically and gesturally diverse themes into a heterogeneous web of sound
that increases the musical tension and dynamic level in building the climax.
Once the climax occurs (measure 244), the theme that triumphs over the previ­
ous combination of themes sounds completely new, even though we have al­
ready heard it many times before in this piece.

595

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

596

T H E S T U D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N
15 - 3 2 . Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 16, No. 5, "Das
obligate Rezitativ," mm. 421-455

e x a m p le

jlp Д м д
jjj
J
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

15 - 3 3 . Principal Melodic Idea in Schoenberg's Five Pieces for
Orchestra, Op. 16, No. 5
e x a m p le

Schoenberg considered all instruments capable of performing all musical func­
tions—that is, any instrument could present foreground, middleground, or
background material. In order to give the impression of a very smooth line, the
composer quietly adds in instruments that can cover this extremely wide range.
He begins with a combination of woodwinds (Flutes 1 and 2, Oboes 1 and 2,
Clarinets 1,2, and 3). Then, to bring out the high note reached by a skip of a 10th
and to offset the rather thin, high oboes, he adds the second violins and the pic­
colo clarinet on that note. For the final beat of measure 448 he brings in the
English horn, bass clarinet, and Bassoons 1 and 2, which bridge the registral gap
by extending the range of the Hauptstimme downward. The second violins intro­
duce the string sound into the Hauptstimme mix; then the violas (supported by
the first violins) complete the phrase. The entrance of the first violins in measure
448 on the dissonant note E6 adds momentary tension; this dissonance finally
"resolves" to the CK4 in measure 450. In measures 452-456, Schoenberg gives a
soft, high, lyrical solo to the muted first trombone rather than to the cello. The
spacing and color combination of the soft wind chord in measure 455 creates
a sonority that you may also wish to add to your vocabulary of orchestral
techniques.
Interestingly, this orchestration is much closer to the rich nineteenth-century
orchestral sound than to the leaner twentieth-century sound, especially in mea­
sures 434-439. However, Schoenberg's use of extreme ranges is more modem
and adds to the tension as well as the expansiveness of this effectively orches­
trated work.

O r c h e s t r a t in g a m e l o d y
o r p r im a r y G e s t u r e
Throughout this chapter we have discussed melody, the main voice or primary
gesture, in the context of an entire orchestral texture. For the moment let us iso­
late melody from other musical considerations such as rhythm and harmony to
explore additional possibilities for scoring a principal theme effectively. The fa­
mous English horn solo from the Roman Carnival Overture by Hector Berlioz
will serve as our model.

P R A C T I C E
IN

Let us look closely at one particular spot: measures 447-451. We find the fol­
lowing principal idea:

599

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

P R A C T I C E

t h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

exa m ple

1 5 -34 . Berlioz, Roman Carnival Overture, mm. 21-28

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

600

* sounds a perfect 5th lower.

Beginning on concert pitch C4, this passage could be played by flute, oboe,
clarinet, and even solo bassoon (although on this instrument the melody would
sound a bit high and strained). This melody is also playable by all the strings,
but it would sound quite awkward on the double bass. The trumpet, horn, and
even the trombone could play the melody, but on this last instrument the top­
most notes would sound pinched at the very least; in this high, intense register
the instrument probably would not project the quiet elegance the tune seems to
demand. The instruments that could most successfully negotiate this line are the
English horn, alto flute, or soprano, alto, and tenor saxophones.
Here is where choice and composer's intent come into play. After ascertain­
ing a newly written tune's character, a composer selects a particular solo instru­
ment that can play the tune in the appropriate range and that suits the melody's
emotional and timbral qualities. If this time appeared in a higher or lower
range, the choice of instrument might very well be different.
The dynamic level of the melody also influences the choice of instrument;
here is where knowing the strengths and weaknesses of every instrument in each
register can be immensely helpful in choosing the most suitable instrument.
To raise a melody's dynamic level or to strengthen its prominence in some
other way, a composer or orchestrator can use any of the following techniques:
1. Double the melody at pitch, preferably with instruments that are acousti­
cally compatible with the assigned instrument. Here are a few of the instru­
ments that are used most frequently for at-pitch doublings:
English horn, doubled by oboe, bassoon, muted trumpet, viola, or cello;
Hute, doubled by violin or clarinet (also viola or cello when the melodic
range permits);
Oboe, doubled by English horn, flute, muted trumpet, horn, violin, or viola;
Clarinet, doubled by flute, violin, viola, cello, horn, or even trumpet;
Bassoon, doubled by oboe, English horn, all strings, soft trombone, or tuba.
Since at-pitch doublings change the basic tone quality of the resulting sound,
you should seriously consider all appropriate mixtures before deciding on
which among them to use. We recommend reserving doubling at pitch for
tutti passages and for very special effects.
2. Use octave doublings: that is, add instruments that are capable of playing
the melody one or more octaves above or below. This type of doubling re­
sembles that played on the organ: pulling the 4' or 2' stops to extend the
range one or two octaves upward, or the 16' or 32' stops to extend the range
one or two octaves downward. Doubling a tune in a three-octave spread, for
instance, such as with two flutes and piccolo, English horn, two oboes, bass

e x a m p le

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

darinet, Bt clarinet, and E clarinet, is more desirable and can be used in
many types of passages.
3. Double only some of the melody notes, or create an elaboration of the
melody on a doubling instrument. In this regard you may wish to refer back
to examples of each of these techniques given earlier in this chapter, as well
as in Example 8-41, which shows a passage from Debussy's La Mer. Here are
two hypothetical examples of how Berlioz could have created a melodic
elaboration of his time:
15- 35. Elaborating a Melody in Berlioz's Roman Carnival Overture

U s in g t h e O r c h e s t r a
C r e a t e S p e c ia l E f f e c t s

to

Scoring sforzandi and forte subito piano
Having an entire orchestra as your instrument enables you to use a variety of
devices to accomplish a particular effect. Often in sforzandi passages, accenting a
note does not sufficiently emphasize it. Here are some suggestions, all of which
are illustrated in Example 15-36:
1. Combine a string pizzicato with a longer note in the winds (as for instance,
in Beethoven's Symphony No. 1, first movement, beginning).
2. Combine a short sforzando trumpet note with sustained notes in the strings.
3. Combine a short sforzando note in the oboes with sustained notes in the
strings.
4. Combine pizzicato notes in the violas with sustained notes in the violins.
e x a m p le

15 - 3 6 . Scoring Orchestral sforzandi

C D -5/T R . 5 7

4

€f

601

P R A C T I C E

SC O R IN G FOR O R C H E STR A

602

th e s tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

The most effective way of scoring forte subito piano for orchestra is to have
one section play a note or chord fortissimo and before that loud sound ends,
carefully add another choir or combination of instruments playing piano and
sustain this new group of instruments at that dynamic level. When the loud
chord cuts off, listeners will perceive a subito piano. It is essential that the two
groups of instruments overlap.
CD-5/TR. 5 8

exam ple

1 5 - 3 7 . Scoring Orchestral fo rte subito pianos
Vln. 1dte

Dovetailing or Overlapping
In any kind of passage where there is a swapping of parts between similar in­
struments to create a seamless color change, make certain that your seams don't
show (Example 15-38a)—unless you intend each group of six notes to be ac­
cented (Example 15-38b):
CD-5/TR. 5 9

e x a m p l e 1 5 - 3 8 . Overlapping and Nonoverlapping Parts
a . VERY SMOOT H DOVETAI LI NG

b. N O N O V E R L A P P I N G P A R T S

S c o r in g

fo r

O rc h estra

Coloring a Note
This technique can be accomplished in a variety of ways.

Coloring a Single Note
e x a m p le

1 5-39. Coloring a Sustained С

C D -5/TR. 6 0
Eng. Hn.
(sounding)

Coloring Each Note with a Different Instrument
e x a m p le

15 - 4 0 . Changing the Color of Each Note

C D -5/ T R . 6 1

Using Alternate Fingerings to Color a Fitch on the Same Instrument
or on Like Instruments
This intriguing and effective technique for coloring a pitch is a rather recent
development.
e x a m p le

15 - 4 i . Coloring a Single Pitch by Using Alternate Fingerings

It is relatively easy to change the tone color on string instruments by specifying
the string on which a particular note is to be played. (You may wish to review
Chapter 3 for details.) On brass instruments, this can be achieved by using alter­
nate fingerings, but we advise you to first consult a professional brass player to
determine how best to achieve your desired result.

C D -5/T R. 6 2

603

604

th e s tu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

Pointillistic Scoring and Klangfarbetimelodie
Pointillistic scoring is very similar to the technique of coloring each pitch in a
melody by using a different instrument (Example 15-40). Anton Webern was
one of the proponents of this kind of scoring, which has also been called
Klangfarbenmelodie (Ger., "tone color melody")* We imitate his technique in the
following example, also assigning a different dynamic to each note as he did, as
well as adding some stylistically characteristic octave displacements.
C D -S/ T R . 6 3

1 5 - 4 2 . Scoring "Pointillistically"

exa m ple

Fl 1
л

T p 1- 1

/

Via

Hn. 1
muted

4f

pp

vi]a. 2
ptzz.

т. Vic.

f

P

The resulting fragmented melody can be considered an aural analogue of the
French school of pointillistic painting that was fashionable around the turn of
the twentieth century. Pointillistic painters combined tiny dots of different un­
mixed colors to achieve their representational effects.
To appreciate the full impact of the pointillistic or Klangfarben technique as
applied to music we will study the first fourteen measures from the first
movement of Webern's Symphony Op. 21. You might also wish to study mea­
sures 35-39 on your own. This work is based on the following tone row; notice
that the second hexachord is the retrograde of the first, beginning a tritone
higher:
ex a m plei

(P-O)

5-43. Tone Row for Webern's Symphony, Op. 21
(K-6)

This row has many different permutations in the work itself, which are noted in
the condensed score (Example 15-44a). Notice that Webern gives almost every
pitch a different instrumental color or a different playing technique; in measures
5-r7 the viola plays three successive pitches, two pizzicato and one arco. Since
this is a strict twelve-tone work, pitches do not have the same melodic or har­
monic functions as in traditional tonal music. Rather, each pitch is important for
its own sake; the interpreter has to mentally construct musical lines based on the
row from the seeming isolation of each pitch or gesture. To aid in the under­
standing of the linear logic of the passage, Webern gives the durations, articula­
tions, and dynamics in the score; the dynamics in particular must be strictly

*The term Klangfarbenmelodie is often applied to m u sic in w hich a repeated pitch is colored
by d ifferent orchestral instrum ents. H o w ever, the archetypical Klangfarbenmelodie is a continu­
ou s phrase w ith alm ost every o n e of its p itch es colored by a d ifferent instrum ent.

e
i c
t

605

( J = ca. 50)

ini
n
o

R u h ig sch re ite n d

r

c

h

a . CONDE NSE D SCORE

e s t r

e x a m p l e 1 5 - 4 4 . Webern, Symphony, Op. 2 1 , mm. 1 - 1 4

a

t i o

observed. Because of the constant variation of colors, the overall effect of this
passage is one of contrapuntal density, even though the actual texture is very
sparse.

p

r

a

c

S c o rin g f o r O r c h e s tr a

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

C D -5/ T R . 6 4

b . FULL S C ORE

IN

P R A C T I C E

60 6

2

3

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

1

10

11

12

13

14

S c o r in g

fo r

O rc h estra

Pointillistic or Klangfarben scoring can conceivably be applied to tonal
music, especially if you use many octave transpositions, thereby creating a
two-tiered melody. For such a phenonemon you may wish to study Webern's
Passacaglia, Op. 1. This work uses the music of Bach and Brahms as models,
but it definitely sounds like a twentieth-century work; Webern uses the pointil­
listic method of coloring pitches to make a Klangfarbenmelodie out of his angular
tonal melody.
В

A D D ITIO N A L O R C H E S T R A L W ORKS FOR S TU D Y

Classical:
Beethoven, Symphony No. 4, first movement
Beethoven, Symphony No. 7, fourth movement
Haydn, Symphony No. 104, first movement
Haydn, Symphonie Concertante in Bt major, first movement
Mozart, Symphony No. 36 ("Linz"), last movement
Early Romantic:
Berlioz, Roman Carnival Overture
Bizet, Symphony No. 1, first movement
Mendelssohn, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Overture
Rossini, La Gazza ladra, Overture
Schubert, Symphony No. 8, second movement
Schumann, Symphony No. 4, last movement
Late Romantic:
Brahms, Variations on a Theme by Haydn
Bruckner, Symphony No. 4, Scherzo
Bruckner, Symphony No. 9, first movement
Chabrier, Espafia
Dukas, L’Apprenti sorcier
Liszt, Les Priludes
Mahler, Symphony No. 1, first movement
Mahler, Symphony No. 5, first movement
Rimsky-Korsakov, Suite from Le Coq d'or
Saint-Saens, Danse macabre
R. Strauss, Don Juan
R. Strauss, Tod und Verklarung
Tchaikovsky, Romeo and Juliet Overture
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 4, finale
Wagner, Siegfried, Funeral music
Wagner, Tannhauser, Overture and Venusburg music
Impressionistic:
Debussy, Jeux
Debussy, La Mer, last movement
Debussy, Nocturnes, “Nuages" and "Fetes"
Falla, Suite from The Three-Cornered Hat
Ravel, Piano Concerto in G major
Ravel, Rapsodie espagnole
Early Twentieth Century:
Barber, The School for Scandal Overture
Bartok, Dance Suite
Bartok, Piano Concerto No. 2, last movement

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

608

t h e stu d y o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

Berg, Lulu Suite
Berg, Three Pieces for Orchestra
Britten, Four Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes
Copland, Music for the Theater
Harris, Symphony No. 5
K. A. Hartmann, Symphony No. 6
Hindemith, Die Harmonie der Welt
Hindemith, Sinfonia serena
Piston, Symphony No. 4, second movement
Prokofiev, Piano Concerto No. 3, first movement
Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5, first movement
Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 16
Schoenberg, Gurrelieder
Sessions, Symphony No. 2, first movement
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1, first movement
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 15, first movement
Stravinsky, Concerto for Piano and Winds
Stravinsky, Feu d‘artifice
Stravinsky, Petrushka
Varese, Amerkjues
Vaughan Williams, Symphony No. 4
Bach-Webem, Ricercare (pointillistic scoring)
Webern, Six Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6
Late Twentieth Century:
J. Adams, Harmonielehre
D. Amram, Triple Concerto
L. Andriessen, De Staat
M. Babbitt, Correspondences
P. Boulez, Rituel in Memoriam Madema
P. Boulez, Le Soliel dex eaux
E. Carter, Double Concerto (piano and harpsichord)
P. Maxwell Davies, Prolation
J. Druckman, Prisms
M. Feldman, Structures for Orchestra
I. Fine, Symphony No. 1
H. W. Henze, Symphony No. 8
B. Kolb, Grisaille
H. Lazarof, Concerto for Orchestra
G. Ligeti, Atmospheres
G. Ligeti, Lontano
S. Mackey, Tilt
J. MacMillan, Concerto for Piano and Orchestra
B. Madema, Aura
D. Martino, Concerto for Saxophone and Orchestra
W. Mathias, Symphony No. 2
O. Messiaen, Reveil des Oiseaux
O. Messiaen, Turangaltla-symphonie
T. Musgrave, Concerto for Orchestra
A. Part, Tabula Rasa
K. Penderecki, Symphony No. 2 (Christmas Symphony)
G. Perle, Three Movements for Orchestra
G. Pettersson, Symphony No. 6
C. Rouse, The Infernal Machine

e
i c
t

609

Additional American Orchestral Works:
In this list we provide only one work per composer.
J. Adams, Violin Concerto
S. Adler, Flute Concerto
S. Albert, River Run
D. Asia, Symphony No. 2
M. Babbitt, Relata П
C. Baker, Bead Game
S. Barber, Medea
L. Bassett, Echoes from an Invisible World
R. Beaser, Concerto for Piano and Orchestra
L. Bernstein, Symphony No. 2, "The Age of Anxiety"
W. Bolcom, Symphony No. 5
J. Cage, Atlas Eclipticalis
E. Carter, Variations for Orchestra
G. Chadwick, Symphony No. 3
Chen Yi, Symphony No. 3
M. Colgrass, As Quiet As
A. Copland, Symphony No. 3
J. Corigliano, Symphony No. 1
H. Cowell, Saturday Night at the Firehouse
P. Creston, Symphony No. 2
D. Crockett, Melting Voices
G. Crumb, Of Time and the River
D. Diamond, Symphony No. 4
J. Druckman, Windows
D. Del Tredid, Final Alice
D. Erb, Symphony of Overtures
L. Foss, Time Cycle (full orchestra version)
D. Freund, Radical Light
H. Hanson, Symphony No. 2
J. Harbison, Symphony No. 2
R. Harris, Symphony No. 3
S. Hartke, Concerto for Violin and Orchestra
S. Hodkinson, Sinfonia Concertante
A. Hovhaness, Mysterious Mountain
K. Husa, Symphony No. 2
A. Imbrie, Symphony No. 3
C. Ives, Symphony No. 4

p

IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

P. Ruders, Clarinet Concerto
A. Schnittke, Symphony No. 4
G. Schuller, Seven Studies on Themes of Paul Klee
W. Schuman, Credendum
J. Schwantner, Sudden Rainbow
R. Shapey, Symphonic Concertante
A. Singleton, Shadows
H. Smith, Ritual and Incarnations
К. H. Stockhausen, Hymnen
T. Takemitsu, Visions
M. Tippett, Symphony No. 2
I. Xenakis, Metastasis В
B. A. Zimmermaim, Stillness and Return

r

a

c

S c o r in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

610

T he S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

K. Kennan, Three Pieces for Orchestra
A. J. Kemis, Symphony No. 2
L. Kirchner, Music for Cello and Orchestra
M. Kupferman, Symphonic Odyssey
E. Laderman, Symphony No. 5
L. Larson, Symphony: Water Music
B. Lees, Concerto for String Quartet and Orchestra
J. A. Lennon, Symphonic Rhapsody
W. McKinley, Three Poems of Pablo Neruda
C. McTee, Circuits
P. Mennin, Symphony No. 5
J. K. Paine, Symphony No. 2
S. Paulus, Symphony in Three Movements
V. Persichetti, Symphony No. 4
W. Piston, Symphony No. 6
M. Powell, Modules
S. Ran, Symphony No. 1
B. Rands, Canto del Sol
S. Reich, Music for a Large Ensemble
G. Rochberg, Symphony No. 2
N. Rorem, Symphony No. 3
C. Rouse, Symphony No. 2
C. Ruggles, Sun-Treader
G. Schuller, Of Reminiscences and Reflections
W. Schuman, Symphony No. 3
J. Schwantner, Concerto for Percussion and Orchestra
R. Sessions, Symphony No. 1
H. Shapero, Symphony for Classical Orchestra
Bright Sheng, H'un
M. Shrude, "Into Light"
S. Silver, Three Preludes for Orchestra
R. Starer, Cello Concerto
S. Stucky, Dreamwaltzes
R. Sierra, Idilio
C. Theofanidis, On the Edge of the Infinite
A. Read Thomas, Vigil for Cello and Orchestra
Tan Dun, Death and Fire
V. Thomson, The Plow That Broke the Plains
F. Ticheli, Radiant Voices
M. Torke, Ecstatic Orange
j. Tower, Sequoia
C. Ung, Spirals
R. Ward, Symphony No. 6
G. Walker, Variations for Orchestra
R. Wemick, Visions of Terror and Wonder
D. Welcher, Prairie Light
J. Zaimont, Symphony No. 1
E. Zwilich, Symphony No. 1

T he Orch estra as
A c c o m p a n ist

The orchestra as an accompanying instrument, particularly for the voice, con­
siderably predates its existence as an independent body. In fact, historical evi­
dence indicates that vocal music was by far the most important body of
composed works in Western music until about 1600, when instrumental ensem­
bles, including early orchestral groups, began to achieve greater autonomy. The
early orchestra was helped by the ascendancy of opera, the shift of musical
patronage from the church to royalty and then to the public, and technical
improvements in instruments. However, the orchestra's older role as an accom­
panying body for sacred and secular vocal works has persisted to this day. With
the growth and development of the concerto grosso as well as the rise of the
solo concerto throughout the seventeenth century, composers greatly expanded,
enhanced, and refined the nature and function of orchestral accompaniment.
In this chapter we will examine how the orchestra functioned as accompa­
nist to featured soloists in concertos as well as to vocal soloists or choruses
within operas, cantatas, song cycles, and other types of vocal works.

T he C o n cer to
Concertos have been written for all instruments. Before 1900 the piano was the
favorite solo concerto instrument because it mixes relatively well with all or­
chestral instruments but blends with none. The piano stands out from any or­
chestral combination of instruments more prominently than solo orchestral
instruments, which instead tend to blend in with the orchestral texture. When
writing a concerto for one or more solo orchestral instruments, you must take
more care and consideration in providing an appropriate orchestral accompani­
ment—not to mention an effective solo part. Perhaps to offset the tendency of
solo orchestral instruments to blend in too readily with the orchestral texture,
many orchestration books have recommended that orchestral accompaniments
be assigned chiefly to the strings because of their unobtrusive character.
However, this tactic is simply not borne out in the concerto literature, as we will
see as we study the orchestration techniques used in existing concertos. By
doing so we will be able to extrapolate much better guidelines for creating or­
chestral accompaniments in concertos.

611

IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

16

612

th e

S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

IN

In this section we will focus on six basic techniques:

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

1. using dialogue;
2. assigning foreground and background roles to solo and tutti sections;
3. exploiting color contrast to distinguish the soloist from the orchestra;
4. separating solo and tutti by rhythmic independence;
5. using sparse accompanimental textures advantageously;
6. using spacing and registral placement to distinguish the solo line from the
orchestra.

Using Dialogue
The principle of solo-tutti dialogue stems directly from the Baroque concerto
grosso. The composer introduces the solo instrument by itself, implanting its
timbre firmly in the listener's mind, and then brings in the orchestra, effecting a
radical shift in texture and timbre. In the following Beethoven piece the solo vi­
olin introduces the principal time, which is immediately repeated by the orches­
tra. So conscious was Beethoven of the importance of the timbral contrast of the
orchestral "answer" that he has the strings play pizzicato, in distinction to the
soloist's legato. (Another famous example of such a beginning is Prokofiev's
Violin Concerto in G minor.)
e x a m p le

C D -6/T R . 1

1 6 - 1 . Beethoven, Romance for Violin and Orchestra, Op. 4 0 , m m . 1 - 8

Andante

The same principle operates in the following example from Schumann's
piano concerto. The dialogue between soloist and orchestra enhances each par­
ticipant's role, besides clarifying the melodic material and the formal structure
of the double exposition.

T he Orc h estra

e x a m p le

as

A c c o m p a n is t

1 6 - 2 . Schumann, Piano Concerto, second movement, mm. 1 - 4

Andantmo grazioso ( J> = 120)

There are Literally hundreds of examples of this simple and effective accompa­
nying technique. For instance, see also the first movement of this Schumann
concerto, at measures 185-193.

Assigning Foreground and Background Material
to Solo and Tutti Sections
It is interesting to note that in most successful concertos, roles are frequently ex­
changed, with the foreground material normally assigned to the soloist given to
the orchestra, and the background material of the orchestra to the soloist. In one
of the most striking concerto openings, from Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No.
1, the main theme is assigned to a combination of violins and cellos while the
piano plays a chordal accompaniment, reinforced by soft, sustained harmonies
in the winds.

c D -e m » .

2

613

m
j
■
l

614

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

iП
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

■

C D -6/ T R . 3

e x a m p l e 1 6 - 3 . Tchaikovsky, Piano Concerto No. 1 , first movement, mm. 1 - 1 7

Allegro non troppo e molto maestoso

P R A C T I C E

615

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

T H E O R C H E S T R A A S A C C O M P A N IST

When the soloist provides an accompaniment to the foreground activities of
the orchestra, it is important to use the most idiomatic figuration for the solo in­
strument. When the solo instrument is the piano, for instance, an arpeggiated
left-hand figure can be a very effective accompaniment.
In this "next example the solo instrument fulfills the accompanist's role by
playing virtuosic runs and other types of melodic and harmonic figurations.

P R A C T I C E ;
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

616

T he S tudy

г-п-в/™~a

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p le

1 6-4. Saint-Saens, Cello Concerto, mm. 447-462

as

Ac c o m p a n is t
P R A C T I C E

617

IN

O rc h estra

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

th e

PRACTICE

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

IN

618

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

2 FI.

2 0b.

2 A CL

2 Ben.

Vic. solo

Vln. 1

Vln.2

Via.

Я

A D D IT IO N A L P AS S A G E S FOR S T U D Y

Brahms, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 110-131
Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 335-343

Exploiting Color Contrast to Distinguish the Soloist
from the Orchestra
To introduce the soloist, many composers utilize an orchestral color combina­
tion that contrasts distinctly with the solo instrument. For instance, the
introductions to the slow movements of Tchaikovsky's violin concerto
and Dvorak's cello concerto both begin with the woodwind choir. When in
each of these movements the soloist enters some measures later, its color
sounds very fresh—in spite of the fact that the string sound dominated the
first movement.

1 6-5. Tchaikovsky, Violin Concerto, second movement, mm. 1-24

CO-6/TR. 5

2ва

2Bsn.

2 F Ни.

O R C H E S T R A !

I ON

IN

Canzonetta
Andante ( J = 84)

P R A C T I C

e x a m p le

620

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

~ r— I

---------------

EXAMPLE 16-6.

Dvorak, Cello Concerto, second movement, mm. 1-10

Adagio ma non troppo ( J> = 108)

PP

Examples from two Mozart concertos reveal other ways of using contrasting
colors. In Example 16-7, from his Hom Concerto No. 2, the intermittent dou­
bling of the solo instrument by the first violins does not diminish the soloist's
role, because of the vast color contrast between the hom and violins. The rest of
the strings for the most part provide the harmonic background, but occasionally
offer contrapuntal interest. Notice that Mozart never uses the orchestral horns
while the solo hom is playing, but rather employs them only in the orchestral in­
troduction and during interludes.

T H E O R C H E S T R A A S A C C O M P A N IS T

e x a m p le 1 6-7. Mozart, Horn Concerto No. 2, K. 417, first movement, mm. 6 -6 3

Ob.

EkHn.

C D -6/TR. 7

Allegro
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

6

621

IN P R A C T I C E
O R C H E S T R A T IO N

20

Ob.

W

Ш

j- И

BHn.
/

j- н ^ Н
=£=£=

.—
Ji -J
^—
r*--a
- ff--a
4 h---- - -W
Vln.21 1 A--к
*-*—---- - J -----------J --------Via.

ЗЩ

M

-

1 ^

- , . - . - г -

f-C £
£

■r £ —

г-ч . .1 =

- r - p

it

Vic.,
D.B.

Et Hn. solo

Vln.1|

H.---------- '
^ t>, -.
Vln. 2 1

^ ^ z J ~
Via.

■унА J - - - ~ - = F = f = =
ЮL; J-—
- Г -£
p

Vic..
D.B.

" --------- "

■ - ----- 7--------------

----------- -

L

-

g g f o ^ j y [T
- -

V

ET^L

33

, J d—
P J- ^ ~
PF

J-

T h e o r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t
38

EL Hn. solo

l ±

±

—

b

Ш

Ш

Х Л _ U----------------—

^----------------u

jjT jJ T T j

J J _ T r j

Q T j T T Jj

{T P T 7 J

Vln. II
n

n

j )

Vln. 21

Via.

Vic.,
D.B.

г

—f ------1—f—1---------

f -

=F— ' J

--------1
_

II

I'

I'

I'

----------------,

t

t

—

623

P R A C T I C E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

624

The next excerpt, taken from the final movement of Mozart's Flute Concerto
in G major, illustrates a number of ways he uses color to contrast the solo instru­
ment with the rest of the orchestra.
1. He uses a sparse accompaniment of only strings, with two horns and two
oboes at certain selected points, to provide a contrasting color to the flute's
timbre.

T h e O r c h e s t r a a s Ac c o m p a n is t

2. He writes a tune twice, using two instrumental colors: the tune is played
first by the oboes and starting at measure 65 then by the solo flute and first
violins at measure 69. This passage is then followed by soloistic runs (mea­
sure 73), which can be played freely because of the lightly orchestrated accompanimental texture.
3. He drastically reduces the orchestral tutti as soon as the solo flute enters: in
measure 83 the flute begins in the softest part of its range; therefore, to make
its part heard Mozart reduces the forte orchestral tutti of measures 81-82
and lowers the dynamic to piano. The sustained D, played by horns, cellos,
and basses, contrasts in color not only with the solo flute but also with the
oboes and strings in these measures, thereby emphasizing the imminent re­
turn to the tonic G in measure 94.
4. He employs no other orchestral flutes in this work so that the solo flute will
not encounter any color competition.
exam ple

54-94

i 6-e.

Mozart, Flute Concerto No. 1, K. 313, third movement, mm.

|~ c d - 6 / t r . e

625

P R A C T I C E

th e

S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

f

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

626

'i f - - - i- - - *— J- - - Ш

—*------ ----1
-----

—

1 J— '
$ h b U
r n

^— '
J J
r 4 = L

— — :г ~ -y —>■» ^ - □ L i L b

Г, ?

,
Г

r r r

627

P R A C T I C E

A c c o m p a n is t

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

th e o rc h estr a a s

Separating Solo and Tutti by
Rhythmic Independence
This more delicate technique, crucial to many accompaniments, can be used in
cases where solo and orchestral colors are similar. For instance, in his Violin
Concerto, Tchaikovsky chose a string orchestra to accompany the solo violin.
The composer gave the first violins a canonic countermelody and assigned a
simple harmonic accompaniment to the rest of the section. This accompaniment
neither duplicates nor imitates the distinct rhythm patterns played by the solo
violin.

1

The S tudy

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p le

1 6 -9 .

Tchaikovsky, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 2 8 - 3 8

IN

P R A

I 628

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

Moderate as sal ( j = 8 0 )

e
i c
t

629

c

O r c h e s t r a a s a c c o m p a n is t

p

r

a

th e

r
s t
e
h

l O

c

Allegro molto

CD-6/TR.

r

107

16- 10 . Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto, third movement, mm. 107-117

o

e x a m p le

a

t

i o

n

in

In the last movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor, we find
a radical difference between the rhythmically smooth line of the soloist and the
rather "coquettish" figure of the orchestral string accompaniment.

630

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

2 ACL

2 Bsn.

Vic.,
D.B.

Using Sparse Accompanimental Textures Advantageously
An appropriate density of orchestral texture can add immeasurably to the effec­
tive presentation of solo material. In the following two examples, the solo in­
strument is given a sparse accompaniment texture that allows the opening
melodic gestures of each solo instrument to come through.
In the first example Sibelius creates an atmosphere of hushed expectation,
into which the soloist enters with a strong, fresh sound. Because the ethereal ac­
companying texture is so thinly orchestrated, the beautiful, robust melody soars
freely above it and is instantly perceived by the listener.
CD-6/TR. 1 1

e x a m p l e

j

Vln. solo

Vln. 1

Vln. 2

Allegro moderate

i6-i i . Sibelius, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 1-40
dolce ed espressivo

T h e O r c h e s t r a a s Ac c o m p a n is t

631

o

r

c

h

e

s

t

r

a

t

i o

n

1. Solo

P R A C T I C E

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

632

зв

Similarly, in this piano concerto Bartok creates a hushed atmosphere with the
undulating strings, quietly pulsating timpani, and sustained clarinet chord,
which permit the piano free rein in performing its lyrical tune. The fluttering,
elusive, but yet quite regular background rhythm of the accompaniment con­
trasts strongly with the intricate rhythms of the solo piano's main melody.

ACL 1,2

T im p .

Pno. solo

Vln. 2

Via.

i

P R A C 1

Allegretto ( j = 88)

CD-e/TR. 12

IN

j

1 6-1 2 . Bartdk, Piano Concerto No. 3, first movement, mm. 1-18

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

e x a m p le

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

634

T he S tudy

9
FI. 1,2

A CL 1,2

FHn. 1,2

Pno. solo

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.
D.B.

FI. 1,2

ACl. 1,2
FHn. 1,2

Pno. solo

Vln. 2

Via.

Vic.

D.B.

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

T h e O r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t
14

Using Spacing and Registral Placement to Distinguish
the Solo Line from the Orchestra
Some instruments tend to blend in with the orchestra when played in certain
registers and with acoustically sympathetic orchestral combinations. To combat
this tendency successfully, we can employ the ingenious solutions from the fol­
lowing three excerpts from the concerto literature.

635

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

636

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

In Beethoven's Violin Concerto, starting at measure 102, the soloist replaces
the flute in the woodwind combination, and in this high, ethereal register it eas­
ily dominates the texture. The woodwinds provide a simple harmonic accompa­
niment, and the timpanist plays the rhythmic motive that joins the melody's
two phrases.
e x a m p le

1 6 - 1 3

Beethoven, Violin Concerto, first movement, mm. 9 9 - 1 0 9

Later on in this concerto the bassoOn melody, played in the instrument's
most expressive, intense register, is pitted against the virtuosic solo violin pas­
sages, making these two instruments equal partners. The great contrast in
rhythmic activity between the two instruments, coupled with the simplicity of
the harmonic accompaniment in the orchestral strings, contributes immensely
to the clarity of the foreground (bassoon melody), middleground (violin figura­
tion), and background (orchestral strings) roles these instruments play.

e
i c

637

t

A c c o m p a n is t

c

o rc h estra a s

1 6 - 1 4 . Beethoven, Violin Concerto, third movement, mm. 135-142

C D -6 / T R .

14
in

e x a m p le

p

r

a

The

i o

n

Allegro

h

e

s t

r

a

t

Bsn.

o

r

c

Vln. solo

Vln. 1 I

Vln. 2 |

Via.

t r * n n --------------^-------------

Ы

А- i .

pizz.
Vic.
D.B.

In the famous "triangle episode" from his Piano Concerto in Et, Liszt writes
an idiomatic flute part that doubles at pitch the piano's most important melody
notes. The pizzicato strings provide a harmonic background on beats 1 and 2,
and the triangle provides a new color on beat 3.

П С Е
P R A C

e x a m p le

1 6 -1 5 . Liszt, Piano Concerto No. 1, second movement, mm. 99-104

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

C D -6/ T R . 1 5

These techniques do not preclude the possibility of using a simple accompa­
nying figure in the orchestra to harmonize a solo melody; in fact, especially with
solo woodwind instruments, a simple accompaniment can often work very
well. The accompanying forces should be kept registrally distant from the
soloist whenever possible, however, although a highly contrasting rhythmic ac­
companiment lessens the need for this.

e
i c
t
c

639

r

a

T h e O r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t

Tenor

Bass

a
r
s t
e
r

Alto

o

Soprano

c

h

One of the earliest roles of the orchestra has been to provide accompaniment for
vocal music, including solo works, vocal ensembles, and choruses. The accepted
ranges of the four voice types used in these pieces are as follows:

t

i o

n

in

p

A c c o m p a n y in g t h e V o c a l S o l o is t ,
E n sem ble, or C horus

_____

Л

.n

A

Although these ranges generally define the outer limits of what most vocal­
ists can sing, some singers' ranges are even greater. Some sopranos can go above
high С (С6) easily, and, using the chest voice, may reach a 4th below middle C.
There are two categories of singers of the alto range: mezzo-sopranos, with a
range

and contraltos, with a range of:

Although different types of tenors are not placed in different categories, the
quality of the voice easily separates a heavy Wagnerian tenor from a light, lyric
tenor singing Mozart. The bass voice can be classified in at least two ways: the
baritone, with a range of:
of:

and a "basso profundo," with a range

. Some basses are able to reach a 4th below this lowest note.

Forcing the voice to sing over a thick orchestral accompaniment for long pe­
riods of time overtaxes and fatigues singers besides causing them to strain ab­
normally, all of which detracts from the beauty of the voice's natural quality.
Just as with any orchestral instrument, the timbre and power of the vocal regis­
ter will vary with each voice part; but unlike the orchestral instrument, these
variations also differ with almost every individual. Usually the lower 5th
within a given range carries least well and must be lightly accompanied; the
next octave is relaxed and quite forceful; and the uppermost 5th within the
range is the most powerful one. However, with many basses and contraltos, the
lower part of the range carries much better than the upper portion, which can
sound constricted and forced. Conversely, the upper registers of the sopranos
and tenors are quite penetrating, whereas the lower register may speak only
very softly.
The voice is an instrument that produces pitches purely "by ear," without
the aid of strings, keys, or valves. Few singers have absolute pitch; others "feel"
the placement of tones the way horn players do—with astonishing accuracy. But
most vocalists depend on the accompaniment for their pitch orientation.
Therefore, it is essential to lead a singer to his or her first pitch, and from then on
provide aid with the orchestral accompaniment so that the singer will be able to
maintain pitch accuracy with relative ease. This does not mean that the voice
part should be doubled at pitch all the time, but the singer should have impor­
tant points of pitch reference as frequently as possible. This is all the,more true
now, what with today's expanded harmonic vocabulary, and it is even more
crucial when writing for a chorus, made up of singers less professionally trained
than soloists.

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

640

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

The Recitative
The recitative is the simplest type of vocal piece to accompany; it usually con­
sists of a few chords, necessary to establish and then sustain the harmonic back­
ground. The two most commonly used recitative types are that accompanied
only by the continuo and that accompanied by an orchestra or smaller orches­
tral ensemble.
The first type is found mostly in the works of Bach, Handel, and other
Baroque composers, and is notated simply as a vocal line with figured bass, on
which chords are improvised (these are shown in Example 16-16 small noteheads):
e x a m p l e 16 - 16 . Haydn, The Creation, No. 9, "Und die himmlichen
Heerscharen," mm. 1-4

U RIEL

Hpschd.

Cont.

6
3

Ш

A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E FOR S TU D Y

J. S. Bach, Cantata No. 56, "Kreuzstab," "Mein Wandel auf der Welt," mm. 1-10
The second type of recitative accompaniment also consists mostly of simple
block chords, but more of the orchestra is used, and often orchestral interrup­
tions of the vocal part heighten the drama:

P R A C T I C E

1 6 - 1 7 . Mendelssohn, Elijah, "Call him louder," mm. 1 - 1 1

IN

ex a m p le

641

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T h e O r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t

IN P R A C T I C E
O R C H E ST R A T IO N

642

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n
e x a m p le

C D -6/T R . 1 8

16 - 18 . Walton, Belshazzar's Feast, Recitative, "And in that same

hour," mm. 1-8
quasi Tecit.

Baritone solo

And

in that same hour

as they

Bar. solo

came forth fin-gers of a man's hand

K

And the King saw the part of the hand that wrote

A D D ITIO N A L P A S S A G E FOR S TU D Y

Mozart, Le Nozze di Figaro, Act Ш, Scene 4, "Hai gia vinta la causa," mm. 14-40

IN

The Opera Aria and Orchestral Song

e x a m p l e

16-19. Verdi, La Traviata, Act I, Scene 3, "Ah f o r s ' e lui,"

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

The orchestral accompaniment to an operatic aria or orchestral song often sets
the atmosphere and even provides interpretation of the text. This is especially
true in opera. However, in many of the most successful Italian operas com­
posers have opted for very simple accompanying figures to permit the singer to
project the words and emotion, unencumbered by orchestral interference. The
following excerpt from La Traoiata exemplifies this type of treatment. The ac­
companiment is quite simple, containing an arpeggiated clarinet obbligato and
sustained chords in the bassoons and horns.

mm. 29—44

643

P R A C T I C E

T h e o r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t

C D -6 / T R . 1 9

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

39

A D D ITIO N A L

PA SSA G E FOR S TU D Y

Verdi, La Traviata, Act Ш, No. 10, 'Tarigi, о сага," mm. 1-35
In Micaela's aria from the third act of Carmen, the mellow color of the cello,
horns, and low woodwinds contrasts wonderfully with the high vocal solo.
Bizet is very careful also to keep the instruments and voice rhythmically sepa­
rate. Thus, the singer is free to make her sad plea with great pathos. Only when
she reaches her dramatic climax on the word peur does Bizet take the first vio­
lins up to double her at a higher octave.

Andante molto j. = 44

P R A C T I C E
IN

g

CD-6/TR. 20

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

1 6-20. Bizet, Carmen, Act Ш, No. 22, "Je dis que rien ne
m'epouvante," mm. 6-24

e x a m p le

P R A C T I C E

TH E ST U D Y O F O RCHESTRATIO N
12

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

646

pocomeno p

MICAELA

T H E O R C H E ST R A AS ACCOMPANIST

647

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

The next example, from the orchestral song literature, consists of a short pas­
sage from the first song of Mahler's Lieder tines fahrenden Gesellen. Here the or­
chestra paints a picture of a meadow with flowers and birds chirping all about.
The voice is never obscured in this colorful setting, however; although the voice
is not doubled throughout, the singer's pitches can always be found somewhere
in the orchestration, although the rhythms may not always coincide. See, for ex­
ample, measures 46-47, where they are doubled first in the second violin, then
in the viola, and so forth. You should study the entire song cycle for some of the
most beautiful orchestral accompaniments imaginable.

44

Ob.
Eft CL

FHn.

Glsp.

Sanft bewegt

Dolce con m oto

C D -€ T rR . 21

649

P R A C T I C E

e x a m p l e 1 6-21 . Mahler, Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen, No. 1, "Wenn mein
Schatz," mm. 44-61

A c c o m p a n is t

IN

as

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T h e o rc h estra

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

650

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

T he Orc h estra

as

A c c o m p a n is t

651

P R A C T I C E

652

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

IN

№

A D D ITIO N A L O R C H E S TR A L S O N G S FO R S TU D Y

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

Barber, Knoxville: Summer of 1915
Berg, Seven Early Songs; Altenberg Lieder
Berlioz, Les Nuits d'Htd
Britten, Serenade; Nocturne
Chausson, Роете de Vamour et de la mer
Elgar, Sea Pictures
Mahler, Kindertotenlieder; Das Lied von der Erde
Messiaen, Pobnes pour mi
Ravel, Sheherazade
Schoenberg, Erwartung (solo opera)
Wagner, Wesendonk Lieder

The Operatic Vocal Ensemble
The following quartet, a canon a 4 from the first act of Beethoven's Fidelia, is a
brilliant example of vocal writing, simply and delicately accompanied by the or­
chestra. Notice that Beethoven doubles the voice parts at all times, either contin­
uously or sporatically (doubling only some of their most important pitches) and
keeps the texture around the singers extremely light. Study each doubling; often
the bass part is doubled several octaves higher, or the soprano part by a bass in­
strument. The light orchestral figuration adds considerably to the spirit of con­
tentment that at least three of the characters feel.

16 -22 . Beethoven, Fidelio, Act I, No. 3, "Mir is so wimderbar"
(Quartetto), mm. 1-51

e x a m p l e

C D -6/T R . 2 2

;

Andante soetenuto

Via. 1 ,2

M ARZELUNE

Vic. 1 ,2

С Cl.

1#-

—

Via.

MARZ.

1Щ

-j.

j - J-т

^

-j -L- i ^ - j ,] | J-—

--- "

p

= Jk 1

fЛ - к

cresc.

* *

||

sempre

P 1N f L L f

■I--»,- >— ■■ . . 1
Я = T g s --h - Г г ~ = т T- -ff 1 7=-^-^~K=V - = * - Fr=V 1 , - 1 1 •Г
4 - -g1st 60W
UD der - bar.
es engt dasHerr mir ein;
сг ЦеЫeicfa. es„_ ist klar------ - --- ich

r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

fn

653

P R A C T I C E

O r c h e s t r a a s a c c o m p a n is t

in

th e

MARZ

LEONORE

MARZ.

LEON.

crese.

“

1 "

V

Ш

I ' f T

1

Vln.2

l

Г

П

1

i 1 , ^

,

T

T

^

j

.

-

- =

■:^ С
— 4 --------------------------------------

л

-------P

j

f

-1

■

£=

-^ -H - i

£ = J

kro°

fi i

woo

Via.

& J_ r

.

- J-

-

MARZ.
gMck

1st

so wun-der-baiv—

ee engldas

LEON.

m

gross

Wie gross, wic

ROCCO

f

,

=
-

Л
=
-----------------------------pta.

Vln. 1

p

" 'J

1

GHn.1.2 $* —

nf

g

t

я
fast

I

r
klar.

1st die Ge-lahr,

P R A C T I C E
!N
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

654

th e

stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

656

th e stu d y o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

IN

P R A C T I C E

657

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T H E O R C H ESTR A AS ACCOM PANIST

P R A C T I C E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

658

Chorus
The combination of chorus and orchestra has been a favorite medium since the
time of Monteverdi. Since choral singers are not always professional musi­
cians, they often need more pitch support than solo singers. In the Baroque
and Classical periods, the chorus, when not doubled, could discern the pitches
easily from the clear harmony provided by the orchestra. As harmonic lan­
guage grew more complex and orchestral forces became ever larger, com­
posers found a variety of other ways to provide good pitch orientation for
choruses.
The following Bach example, like other Baroque pieces, shows how the continuo provides the harmony for the singers at all times; here the orchestra is
used to highlight some beginnings and endings of fugal phrases.

e
i c
t
c

659

in

C D -6/T R , 2 3

o

r

c

h

e

s t

r

a

t

CHORUS

i o

n

e x a m p l e 16-23. J. S. Bach, Cantata No. 2 1 , "Ich hatte viel Bekiimmemiss,"
opening choms, mm. 1-12

p

r

a

T h e o r c h e s t r a a s Ac c o m p a n is t

BSD.

In "The Heavens Are Telling" from Haydn's The Creation, (Example 16-24),
the entire chorus is doubled by the orchestra. In the second phrase notice that
the flute no longer plays the soprano melody but instead doubles the tenor two
octaves higher. Techniques like this add some variety to accompaniments.

e
i c
t
c

661

e

s t

r

a

t

i o

n

in

24

h

cd-6/tr.

c

1 6 - 2 4 . Haydn, The Creation, No. 13, 'The Himmel erzahlen," mm.

r

1-12

o

e x a m p l e

p

r

a

t h e O r c h e s t r a a s A c c o m p a n is t

P R A C T I C E

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

662

Even though Orff employs a large orchestra in Carmina burana, (Example 1625), he always ensures that the chorus sounds through the rich orchestral
texture.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

P R A C T I C E

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

664

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

8

The composer does so in three ways:
1. by often doubling the vocal lines by the orchestra (particularly in the open­
ing measures of this excerpt);
2. by scoring all choral parts in their most advantageous ranges;
3. by setting up an accompanying figure (starting in measure 5) that does not
obscure the chorus but gives vital pitch and rhythmic assistance.
We highly recommend that you study the scores of choral-orchestral works
to discover the most successful techniques for accompanying solo and orches­
tral passages. Below is a short list of recommended works. Of course, there are
many operatic chorus and orchestra combinations, from Fidelia, Der Freischutz,
Carmen, Otello, Turandot, and in particular, Boris Godunov and Wozzeck, among
other operas.
Ш

A D D ITIO N A L W ORKS FOR S TU D Y

J. S. Bach, Mass in В minor; St. Matthew Passion
Bartok, Cantata profana
Beethoven, Missa solemnis; Mass in С
Berlioz, Requiem
Berio, Sinfonia
Brahms, A German Requiem; Alto Rhapsody
Britten, War Requiem
Debussy, The Martyrdom of St. Sebastian
Handel, Messiah; Israel in Egypt
Haydn, The Creation; The Seasons; and Masses
Hindemith, When Lilacs Last in the Door-yard Bloom'd
Honegger, King David
Kodaly, Psalmus hungaricus
Mahler, Symphony No. 2
Mendelssohn, Elijah; Hymn of Praise
Mozart, Requiem; Mass in С minor
Poulenc, Gloria
Prokofiev, Alexander Nevsky
Schoenberg, Gurrelieder
Sessions, When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d
Stravinsky, Symphony of Psalms; Canticum Sacrum; Threni; Oedipus Rex
Tippett, A Child of Our Time
Vaughan Williams, Flos Campi;Hodie
Verdi, Requiem
Walton, Те Deum; Belshazzar's Feast

665

P R A C T I C E

Ac c o m p a n is t

IN

a s

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T h e O rc h estra

IN P R A C T I C E
O R C H E S T R A T IO N

17
T r a n sc r ib in g

for

Orch estra

Transcribing of a piece of music from one medium to another is very much like
translating a poem from one language to another. Although speakers of the
original language will invariably claim that a poem can never be translated suc­
cessfully and loses its essence in the process, people who do not speak the origi­
nal tongue will benefit by being able to understand something that was beyond
their grasp before the transformation was accomplished. In some cases great
poets of one language undertake to translate poems from another, and in doing
so create magnificent masterpieces.
In music as well as in poetry, the arguments for and against transcription
have been with us for many years. Whereas purists maintain that no one should
tamper with the music of the past, history answers with very strong reminders
that transcription is perhaps as old as composed music itself.
We need only go back as far as the Baroque period to find evidence that
composers of that time repeatedly transcribed their own pieces several times
over, besides adapting the works of their contemporaries and predecessors. In
fact, it was a common practice in this period to reorchestrate a piece for what­
ever instruments were available.* To dte only a few of the overwhelming
wealth of examples: Bach's versions of the violin concertos of Vivaldi; Bach's
adaptations of movements from his own instrumental music as orchestral sinfonias for some of the cantatas, or his transcriptions of his violin concertos into
keyboard concertos (the E major violin concerto became the D major keyboard
concerto); Handel's transcription of the second movement of his own D major
violin sonata as a piece for chorus and orchestra in his oratorio Solomon. The
practice grew with each successive decade (Beethoven even made a transcrip­
tion of his violin concerto for piano and orchestra) until it reached almost epi­
demic proportions in the nineteenth century, when every greatly admired work
was transcribed for piano two hands, piano four hands, two pianos, violin and
piano, and so on. These transcriptions were considered a wonderful way for
amateur musicians to become familiar with the masterworks in the privacy of
their own homes. Liszt transcribed all the symphonies of Beethoven for piano;
Brahms, Dvorak, and Grieg transcribed their own ethnic dances (Hungarian,
Slovakian, Norwegian) from piano four hands to orchestra. It is hardly neces*Baroque composers were not so exacting as modem composers about which instrumental
timbre should sound in a piece at any particular time. Instead, in their works they sometimes
did not specify which exact instrument would perform a given part but rather gave the general
indication that it could be played on, say, "any С instrument."
666

1. a thorough knowledge of all the instruments (their capabilities and the char­
acteristics of different parts of their range) used in the piece you wish to
transcribe as well as in the transcription you wish to make;
2. an intimate knowledge of the piece's structure, including its formal details;
3. an insight into the orchestral style of the composer whose work is to be tran­
scribed, or if that composer has not written for orchestra, familiarity with the
orchestral practices of the era in which the composer lived;
4. a love for the work to be transcribed;
5. a valid reason to transcribe a particular work.
For this last point there can be many reasons: the work cries out for an orches­
tral transcription; the original composer wished to orchestrate the work but was
never able to accomplish this task; a conductor wishes to perform the work with
a particular orchestral medium; or certain instruments for which the work was
originally scored are not available.
The overriding consideration that must guide the transcriber is taste. We
must respect the work, the composer, and the period in which the piece was
conceived, but we must use our best judgment as we make every decision con­
cerning the music to be transcribed. For instance, we need to take into account
the size and composition of the orchestra we wish to use; the suitability of an in­
strument to present a certain phrase; and the appropriateness of our orchestra­
tion in clarifying the form of the composition.
In this chapter we shall address many of the issues surrounding transcrip­
tions for orchestra from another medium. In Chapter 19 we will treat the task of
transcribing for band or wind ensemble. In the workbook we give a variety of
pieces that you can use for practice. We will focus on three main areas:
1. transcribing from keyboard or small chamber combinations to orchestra;

P R A C T I C E
IN

sary to justify the art of transcription today, since a large portion of works in the
standard orchestral repertoire are transcriptions of original piano pieces. Liszt's
Hungarian Rhapsodies, Bizet's Jeux d'Enfants ("Children's Games"), and almost all
the works of Ravel bear witness to this statement.
The claim can be made that a famous work like Musorgsky's Pictures at an
Exhibition is more effective in Ravel's orchestral transcription than in the origi­
nal piano version, or that Husa's Music for Prague sounds better for orchestra
than for band; or conversely, that Schoenberg's Variations, Op. 43 sound better
for band than for orchestra. Although we certainly do not wish to get embroiled
in any of these controversies, we do wish to say that the art of transcription is a
valid and respectable one and should be carefully mastered.
Before we examine the practical aspects of this skill we will clarify the differ­
ence between transcription and arrangement. Transcription is a lateral transfer­
ence of a previously composed work from one musical medium to another.
Arranging involves more of the compositional process, since the previously ex­
isting material may be as little as a melody—or even a partial melody—for
which the arranger will supply the harmony, counterpoint, and sometimes a
unique rhythmic setting before even thinking about the orchestration. When an
arrangement is called for, you should adopt the same procedures for orchestrat­
ing a transcription that we give below once the tune has been harmonized and
arranged fully in a piano or short score.
To master the art of transcription, you need to have:

667

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

TRAN SCRIBIN G FOR O R C H E ST R A

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

668

T he S tudy

of

O r c h e s t r a t io n

2. transcribing from band or wind ensemble to orchestra;
3. transcribing to various instrumental combinations that happen to be avail­
able at a given time.
This last section can be applied to those situations in which we might be called
on to transcribe orchestral works for performance by groups, especially school
ensembles, that do not have the full complement of orchestral instruments de­
manded by a particular score, or comprise musicians with limited skills. These
ensembles often perform the important and necessary task of exposing young
players and audiences to good music, and our task of orchestrating expressly
for them can be richly rewarding.

T r a n s c r ib in g fr o m K e y b o a r d
o r S m a ll C h a m b e r C o m b in a tio n s
t o O r c h e s tr a

Transcribing from Keyboard to Orchestra
Transcribing from keyboard to orchestra is the most common type of medium
change. Although it is impossible for an orchestra to simulate the piano sound,
some amazing transcriptions from keyboard to orchestra have been made in the
last one hundred years or so. Ravel wrote all but three of his brilliant orchestral
works for piano first; Stravinsky wrote his early ballets initially for piano—but
perhaps for the purely practical reason that a rehearsal version was essential. If
judiciously executed, transcriptions from piano to orchestra can produce very
idiomatic orchestral music.
These are some ways to accomplish this task:
1. Do not try to simulate the piano; instead, change piano idioms to orchestral
ones while retaining the spirit of the music.
Here are two examples of how Ravel transcribed his own piano pieces.
In the first, notice the thickening of the texture in the orchestral version,
which creates a lusher orchestral tutti. In the second, notice that Ravel did
not feel compelled to transcribe the piano version's left-hand "melody" into
the orchestral version; the instrumental colors of the latter take care of the
contrast.
e x a m p l e

20-23

1 7 - 1 . Ravel, Ma mere Voye (1908-1910), "Le jardin feerique," m m .

fo r

O rc h estra

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

b . ORCH ESTRAL REDUCTIO N

669

P R A C T I C E

T r a n s c r ib in g

e x a m p l e

17 -2 .

Ravel, Menuet antique (1895), mm. 64-66

a . PIANO VERSION

b. ORCHESTRAL REDUCTIO N

2. Remember that the piano is played by one person, while the orchestra is an
aggregate of many; problems that never interfere with the performance of
the pianist may crop up in an orchestral transcription. For instance, your
transcription might need a rhythmic simplification, an alteration in notation,
or a metric change to maintain clarity in the orchestral version. To give an
example, a rebarred version of this Bartok piece would be easier for an or­
chestra to play, since the conductor could give more downbeats.

P R A C T I C E

e x a m p l e

IN

1

17 -3 . Bartok, Mikrokosmos, No. 5, "Syncopation," mm. 1-3

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

a. O R IG IN A L PIA NO NO TA TIO N
Allegro ( J = 152)

b . R E B A R R E D V E RSIO N FOR OR C H E ST R A

1

Allegro

3. A crescendo, diminuendo, rubato, or even a fermata is made clearer when
actually written into the musical texture of an orchestral score. For instance,
you can create a crescendo simply by adding instruments, or a diminuendo
by reducing the number of instruments playing. In the following example,
Mahler effects a diminuendo by dropping out the violas and cellos and let­
ting the bass clarinet, flutes, and double basses conclude the passage.
e x a m p l e 1 7 - 4 . Mahler, Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen, No. 1, "Wenn mein
Schatz," mm. 89-96

C D -5/T R . 6 5

oo

________________

Schneller

■ '

/

r

- -

3 ^ ____ л

..

3

r*n f —

--------------------

Timp.

t
J

,1 -J *»

---------

PP

- >—
p

3

! i> . 1

ITS

PP

J

dim.

Trgl.

•3

V

JT

'Z^~PPPP

P

1

u

»
*

. h
1

3

»

1 -J *> 1
,

г

,
Flag.

r\

Flag.
Hp. <

! '

'

XT
P
3

Vln. l (

^

—л

P

P

p

О
—

PP

IVetr
° ?3 0

rs

PP

f

/*7N
______ —

^
f
f
D.B.

iT\

J ^ J J
_____ ...
3

3

SZ\

dim.

*

-

pi2z.3

3

3

II

e x a m p le 1 7 -5 . Beethoven, Symphony No. 6, first movement, mm. 305-312

C D -5/TR. 6 6

e x a m p le 1 7-6. Bizet, Jeux d'enfants, "La toupie," mm. 1-5*

CD-S/TR, 6 7

Allegro vivo

"See Example 17-llb, p. 691, for the entire movement.

RATI ON

IN

Here are two additional examples of written-out effects by other com­
posers:

671

PR A CTICE

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r o r c h e s t r a

672

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

4. We must correctly interpret important piano notations to render the tran­
scription faithful to the composer's intentions. For instance, for um corda
pedalings in the piano score, for which the piano's soft pedal is used to shift
the inside action so that the hammers strike only one or two of the three
strings, we might want to mute the orchestral instruments used in the tran­
scribed passage.
5. You should be thoroughly familiar with the music to be transcribed so that
you can compose out all implied harmonies and melodic lines in the original
piano version more fully in the orchestral transcription. You must study
carefully the layers of linear activity so that you can more fully orchestrate in
the transcription the inner- and outer-voiced thematic material that may be
only outlined in the original piano music. In addition, you must recognize
the idiomatic piano writing necessitated by the physical limitations of a sin­
gle pianist. You might set chords that are arpeggiated in the piano version
because of the limited span of the human hand as block chords for orchestra,
which could easily play them that way.
6. When a contrapuntal piano work is to be orchestrated, the limitless color
possibilities of an orchestra are tantalizing. A pianist, however gifted, can
apply only a relatively limited coloration to the individual lines of a contra­
puntal work, no matter how clever and varied his or her articulations. In
contrast, the orchestrator has a variety of colors to work with and can easily
feature the various lines. However, you should not make things so colorful
as to obscure the form or upset the musical scheme—such as, changing in­
strumental color in the middle of a melodic phrase or fugue subject, unless
the musical texture itself is pointillistic or some contemporary melodic de­
vice is used. Studying the layers of the music and determining their order of
importance is paramount to transcribing successfully, whether the piece is
largely homophonic or largely polyphonic.
Here are two examples that deal orchestrally with the pianistic phenomena
mentioned in all six points given above. In the first, the bass pitches that are sus­
tained by the damper pedal in the piano version are written out as dotted quar­
ter notes in the orchestral version. The woodwinds, doubled at the octave both
above and below, give a fuller, more colorful sound to the crescendo.
e x a m p le

1 7 - 7 . Chopin, Etude, Op. 2 5 , No. 6 , m m . 3 9 - 4 0

a . O R IG IN A L PIANO VERSIO N

CD-5/TR.

6 8

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

b . ORCHESTRA L VERSION

673

PRACTICE

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

In the second excerpt. Ravel has written out the fermatas in Musorgsky's
original piano version by giving each chord in his version four beats in 1
meter, which approximates the decay time of each piano chord with fermata.
Musorgsky strengthened the chords starting seven measures from the end by
having the pianist play each chord twice, in different octaves; at this same spot
(nine measures before the end in the orchestral version) Ravel, who does not
need to concern himself with natural decay, writes very powerful, long-held
chords for the winds and strings. Notice also that Ravel does not mimic the
final piano tremolo in his orchestral version; nor does he end the piece on a
fermata.
e x a m p l e

1 7-e. Musorgsky, Pictures at an Exhibition, "The Great Gate of Kiev"

a. O R IG IN A L PIANO VE R S IO N , FIN AL 15 MEASURES

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

674

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

b. O R C H E ST R A L V E RSIO N BY R A V E L , FIN A L 22 MEA SU RES

PRA CTICE

675

ORCHESTRATION

IN

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r o r c h e s t r a

Cymb.

Tam-Tam

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

676

T h e s t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Successful Models from Music Literature
The best way to learn how to make transcriptions from piano to orchestra is to
study the successful transcriptions made by other composers. The examples
given in this section, most of which are simple and straightforward, were done
by the composers themselves.
Brahms, Hungarian Dance No. 1
Brahms created an effective transcription of his original piano four-hand
version of the Hungarian Dance No. 1. He increases the dynamics from mezzo
forte to forte in the opening string passage of the orchestral version, taken from
the piano version's secondo part, and from piano to forte at the entrance of the
winds in measure 5, taken from the piano version's primo part. These dynamic
changes add some intensity to the orchestral version. The beautiful scoring of
the strings, with the violins playing the time (doubled an octave lower by the
bassoons), is enhanced by the steady pizzicato bass (not in the original piano
version) and the cello, the latter which gives the Hungarian rhythm (in mea­
sures 5-6 the violas join the cellos to articulate this off-the-beat rhythm). The
cello, which distributes the chord tones over the course of each measure in mea­
sures 1-4, provides the complete chordal harmony on the downbeats of mea­
sures 5-6, using double stops joined by those of the viola. Thus, the strings in
measures 1-4 and later in measures 7-10 give a sense of lightness, whereas in
the intervening measures 5-6 they sound weightier and more stable, the better
to underpin the woodwinds' arpeggiated figuration.
The woodwind arpeggio is most imaginatively scored: while the piccolo and
first flute play up, the two clarinets "flutter" in the opposite direction. The com­
poser entrusts the staccato pitches to the second flute and first bassoon, doubled
at the octave in measure 6 (note that the bassoon completes the descending
arpeggio on Bt but the flute does not, since it cannot; note also that the bassoon's
ascending arpeggio in measure 5 is not in the piano version). In the parallel pas­
sage in measure 12 the bassoon instead reinforces the pitches of the first flute. In
measure 5 the horns, with the timpani and triangle, add color to the sustained
note of the violins besides reinforcing the harmony.
We quote this piece at length to show how long Brahms retains the same
color combination. You might trace the interchange between the flutes and the
bassoon through measure 24. When Brahms finally does change the orchestral
color in measure 25, he gives the triplets of the piano version's secondo part to
the violas and orchestrates the mezzo forte of the piano version's primo part by
doubling the violins with the horns and oboes.

fo r

O rc h estra

IN

e x a m p l e 1 7 -9 . Brahms, Hungarian Dance No. 1, mm. 1-48

677

PR A C TIC E

T r a n s c r ib in g

SECONDO

1

ORCHESTRATION

a. PIANO F OU R-H A N D VERSION
PRMO

s.

'

^C B

f
i n
=

t - j

n
-

,,

!

|TjE

f h

t

H
^

21

*

у

1L^

*

"----- Г

if .t _T.
* 6

ffih
<i>

*

♦

'1

|

S

S T = 11№

-

_^ treaL 1
—
;---- 7-----1

p

38

|

1Г^

vl f~r f r~p7

±t z
t
rfrfrifrTrfrl

CSC

1,1

1
g

f

W s.
___^

V

trtm.

'z b m

, <*>

r| Ш Ш Щ

V
1“

£g
в

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

C D -5/ T R . 7 0

b . O R CHESTR A L VERSION

681

ORCHESTRATION

IN

T R A N S C R IB IN G FO R O R C H E S T R A

PRACTIC

1

Dvorak, Slavonic Dance No. 8
Dvorak's orchestral transcription of his Slavonic Dance No. 8 for piano four
hands is known for its thrilling tutti opening and the contrasting softer section
immediately following. The grace notes of the second violin and the rolled
chord of the cello, both of which include open strings, give a special ring to the
orchestral version's opening chord. In the first few measures, compare the first
and second violin parts with those of the first oboe and second clarinet; at twomeasure intervals the two woodwinds alternate from doubling the harmony
notes of the second violin to doubling the melody notes of the first violin.
Notice, too, how Dvorak emphasizes the melodic figure by a large amount of
doubling (piccolo, flute, and first violin, as well as first oboe and second clarinet
in measures 3-4). The cymbal and bass drum supply this well-orchestrated tutti
with additional color. At measure 9 the orchestration changes: the dynamic
drops to piano, and the opening, peasantlike, syncopated melody is given exclu­
sively to the woodwinds, which repeat it piano. A new, sustained, counter­
melody, added by the upper strings, emphasizes the offbeats of the Slavonic
rhythm (this countermelody does not exist in the orginal piano parts). Here, a
light accompaniment is supplied by the horns, lower winds, and lower strings.

e
i c
t

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

r

a

c

682

p

17 -Ю . Dvorak, Slavonic Dance No. 8, mm. 1-48

in

exa m ple

i o

n

a . P IA N O F O U R -H A N D VERSION

PRIMO

t

SECONDO

r

a

Presto

s t
e
h
c
r
o

mm
m
4 - 5^w

f e l l r^ — b]

s e w Ж
ff
as

Presto

PPP

m

e£ £ i
(M-------------- ~1

7

M

m

s

m

r j

A.

1.

<!»► V

,fp-.l^
J H - * —

4 - C

r

.

f - f +

n

Л г-g f

if £ ff.

■rrl
j W
m
19
r. .

, H lfe

H ill

rr

p
T

is s
— f - rtf--- #-}щ—Щ '* » <-.

,r

U -----------

a'
fr

T f ,T V-f

I

iV M

*
t W r
t-n ,

JS 0И -

1 =Н=ГГ :V

i i w
25

ч

Ш

i

3r r гт-¥-^п
M i *J~C=

ЛЧЦЦi f fr>. |-f

Ы ВМ

Ш

к

m

m

r
Н Э

-J..i> 1- Г 5 i

$ —

r

a f c a a
»P -

m

IV ^ T T -

_ l_ C fc u

f f t

т

ш

¥

i

к -■-*- * -

и

J-JT b i

W

-

- f r f —r
M

м

tn

f4 4 = 4 = M =

31
i tele
i ^ ti r f Г |

57 (»->—

i

#

F

-9" 1 : :

37

|||F|

rr

i l l

ш ^м

b . ORCHESTRAL VE RSION

O rc h estra

CD-5 /TR. 71

683

PR A C TIC E

fo r

IN

T r a n s c r ib in g

ORCHESTRATION

Presto

I I CE.
PRAC
IN
ORCHESTRATION

684

T h e s tu d y

s

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Orc h estra

685

IN P R A C T I C E

fo r

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g

TICK
PRAC
IN
ORCHESTRATION

68 6

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

PR A C TIC E
IN

33

687

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r o r c h e s t r a

PRA CTIC E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

688

The distribution of chord tones in the repetition of the first strain at measure
17 has more open spacing, particularly in the horns and middle string parts.
Thus, without changing the basic color, Dvorak has given the tutti a slightly dif­
ferent hue. The new answer to this strain (measure 25) is expertly worked out in
the orchestral version: the delay of the oboe entrance mimics the delay of the
tune's entrance in the left hand of the primo piano part; the new orchestral color
in measure 29 emphasizes the polyphonic nature of this answer. At measures
33-35 in the orchestral version Dvorak achieves a diminuendo from fortissimo to
piano by dropping out many of the doubling instruments; the elimination of the
strings, which have been playing continuously since the beginning of the piece,
is a great relief here (perhaps Dvorak cut them out to prepare for their support­
ing role in the next section, starting at measure 41). Notice also that the piccolo
part has been written an octave lower; this enables the player to lower the dy­
namic to piano more easily. The other instruments in measures 34 and following
(flutes, oboes, clarinets, horns, and trombones) also play in a range in which the
performers can better control dynamics.

The Jeux d'enfants of Bizet is another work originally written for piano four
hands. Its transcription for orchestra is simple but sensitive, full of many valu­
able devices that can be adopted by other transcribers. In "La toupie," given
here in its entirety, the opening octaves are distributed among the strings in a
way that allows a diminuendo as the string parts drop out in measures 2-5. In
measures 5-8 the E pedal is strengthened by a playful orchestration that gives
the third horn its own rhythm; the hom plays on beat 2, which is not empha­
sized in the piano version's primo part or in the orchestral version's flute part.
Starting in measure 9 this rhythm provides a light offbeat accent. In measure 7
notice that Bizet enharmonically spells the secondo piano part's D i3 as E!>3 in
the orchestral version. Starting in measure 16 Bizet orchestrates a crescendo
by adding more instruments. To the sustained chord of the piano version in
measure 28 he adds in the orchestral version a "whispering" tritone in the
cellos and a timpani roll. To accommodate all this extra motion that enlivens
this sustained chord, Bizet changes the dynamic from pp to ppp. The triplet
run in the strings that follows (measure 31) is an excellent example of the
dovetailing of parts to give a continuous feel to the motion that goes from bot­
tom to top.
Bizet makes slight but significant changes in his orchestration of the repeti­
tion of this little piece, which begins in measure 37. For instance, notice that the
viola's sixteenth notes are doubled by the cellos for the duration of the entire
section (measures 31-63) and that the staccato flute melody is doubled at pitch
by pizzicato violins from measure 40 on. Notice also that the descending chro­
matic scale in the clarinets in measures 38-41 is doubled at the octave by the
bassoons (in the original piano version this line is represented by simple stac­
cato notes given in the left hand secondo part). All these doublings create a fuller
orchestral texture than was heard from measures 1 to 27. The fourth hom rein­
forces the pedal by sustaining the pitch E, while the trumpets play the rhythm
previously given to the third hom. Ten measures before the end Bizet repeats
the "whispering" tritone in the cellos as well as the timpani roll, but this time
the dovetailing triplet run that follows is heard in the woodwinds. The ending is
scored quite traditionally, with effective use of spacing and octave doublings
within the final chords. Notice that as the strings play the sixteenth-note pattern
in octaves, the third and fourth horns sustain an E pedal, mimicing the piano's
sustaining pedal. The high woodwinds, which double the strings at the octave
on the last two chords, provide a more colorful finality to the piece than the two
pianists playing the original version could muster.

p r a c t i c e
in

Bizet, Jeux d'enfants, "La toupie"

689

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r o r c h e s t r a

T H E S T U D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N
e x a m p le

IN

PRA CTICE

690

ORCHESTRATION

a.

17- 1 1 . Bizet, Jeuxd'enfants, "La toupie" (complete)
PIANO F OU R-H A N D VE RS ION

SECONDO

Allegro vivo ( J = 152)

Allegro vivo ( J - 152)

ff t

Л■

<

JT

f

di -

ml

fe

CJ

1 P

PRIMO

rat - m - dc

'

p

boo

6

Г «=*
^
4

еC J

i . »г ч

cJ 1

и = -i .¥

.

> f - .

Я

1н

p

fj~~? •^ p

7 E --

,h > V r r r — E
dim. ■

p iu

r
If .

p
j r j

*

*

j 7 1
29 LrV-*r

t= ^ \ , . 1 -

г т г ,.r ^ r
I *f
farf-j

| ry -

Jmor -

г

ji

» -

bi

41
p

л i * 7 ftfr *

к b

L - т

t—

trr—

^ 7^ ’

I - ; , ■ --- —-- h
"H u f *=N

i---- ri -r=l— —
№ i Tp
j .. j i* j

m

Q ;l—itz
j.
If
, - f

^

*
со

ife y

m

I

= j=

V

IT - T " * »

p
a

p o ■со

e r e - seen

- do

di

-к

■*

L ^ jl J —
—

ш

о *—

3

[ Ш ^ м — 1
mor

J

^

&

-

h
J > 1

ORCHESTRATION

50

59

'•

ф *р й

J > 1

4

Ш
.

S

1 h_fr

I

V ' L - 4 —

Ь . ORCH ESTRAL VERSION

Allegro vivo ( J = 152)

PRA CTICE

T

IN

jj U g p p
po 1>

* eXittT* f f \ГУ^ :^ ± Ц -^ и Г-Г

C D -5/ T R . 7 2

PR A CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

692

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

693

ORCHESTRATION

IN

20

Or c h estra

PRA CTICE

t r a n s c r ib in g t o r

p n tp

sempredim.

694

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

PRA CTICE
IN

695

ORCHESTRATION

TRA N SC RIBIN G FOR O R C H E ST R A

PRACTICE.

T H E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRA TIO N

42

IN

696

ORCHESTRATION

FI. 1 1

FI. 2 I

1? U 1

I

1,

P—

, t v JLI

V J 4 |f f
U
■ 7

* Mf r lr -f

y

H? •

F ff f Г
U-J— c J

U

v &щ

■r f

V * -> r » .p-jhi—F—>—P— -|j
,Г З ч ;
, Г 2* iГЭ=
» W
P u i Ы - - ‘ c J c J 11
' T~ H

pp

С Hn. 3,4

V

-----------('Г— ------- " Г " --------- 'Г " ----------- f r - -----------|| "f----------- 'P

7 *

ATpt. 1.2

Vln. 1
Vln.2
Via.

D.B.

FI. 1

FI. 2
2 0b.
2 ACL

2Bsn.
pp

FHn. 1, 2j + —
J

С Hn. 3,41
ATpt. 1,2

Vln. 1

Vln.2

i ------------

Г

I

l|j> T----- r* -------------

r

к

j

r* —

т -1

— T—

Г *—

"яр

-* ----------- +-----------•J

pp

p

-jy

- * -----------

j>

T

-

- J -----------i

M

—

^

- * ---------- 4----- b —
■*

-

697

PRACTICE!

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

ORCHESTRATION

IN

55

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

698

T h e S tu d y

o f

o r c h e s tr a tio n

O rc h estra

699

PRACTICE

f o r

ORCHESTRATION

IN

t r a n s c r ib in g

Ravel, M a mere Voye, "Petit poucet"
It is hard to believe that the suite Ma mere Voye was first written for piano
four hands; its orchestral version sounds so completely natural. For "Petit
poucet/' the second piece, Ravel's orchestration adapts the piano original sim­
ply, but with impeccable taste and clarity. The muted violins, providing a soft
background, contrast sharply with the oboe's tune. Since eighth-note movement
dominates both accompaniment and melody, the highly contrasting instrumen­
tal colors separate the two elements for the listener. In the orchestra version,

PR A C TIC E
IN
ORCHESTRATION

700

t h e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Ravel is especially careful to notate even the slightest details of articulation as
well as the decay and cutoff of a pitch. For instance, the very sustained effect no­
tated in the secondo piano part by an unbroken slur is created in the orchestral
version by an instrumental background that dovetails with another—for in­
stance, at measure 12 the violins' lines dovetail with those of the lower strings.
Here, the slurring pattern of the violas and cello, like that of the violins heard
earlier, creates a fairly light and regularly articulated string accompaniment that
supports the more imaginative phrasing of the solo instrument. Notice that the
melody itself, taken up by the darker-hued English horn, is given a fresh articu­
lation in measure 12. The sustained Et of the clarinet in these measures, softly
accented by the double bass pizzicato, creates an effect comparable to that pro­
duced by the damper pedal on the piano (compare the two versions of the piece
at measure 14). It is interesting to observe how the composer changes both fore­
ground and background color with each new entrance of the melody and how
the background at times dovetails with the old, whereas at other times it is
newly articulated.
At measure 27, we begin an orchestrated crescendo, followed by a diminu­
endo. The harmonic texture is very thin, consisting mostly of octave doublings,
but because of the intense register that most of the instruments play in, their col­
ors give an effect of fullness. As the lines descend and drop out, Ravel brings
back the English horn theme a 5th lower than its first statement (measure 40).
The four measures starting at measure 51 go well beyond mere transcrip­
tion. Over a D pedal and with the melody played by the first bassoon, paralleled
by the muted violas, Ravel creates a magical atmosphere. The sophisticated,
subtle orchestral effects in these measures could never be duplicated on the
piano unless the insides of the piano were called into use. The simple grace note
(G#7-A 7) in the piano version's primo part is replaced by a chromatic glissando
in string harmonics, from Ft7 to A7, in the solo first violin. Ravel uses this device
in many of his transcriptions from piano to orchestra, varying and extending an
ornament such as a grace note with a more coloristic effect. The sul tasto glis­
sando in the rest of the first violins and later in the cellos, as well as the trills in
the second and third solo violins and the tremolo in the second violins, add
mystery and a moment of otherworldliness to the musically conservative at­
mosphere thus far. Study the piccolo's motive, which is imitated by the second
and third solo violin trills; this is quite different from the simple gesture given
in the piano version's primo part.'The seemingly unaffected bassoon solo, with
its viola accompaniment, is the only constant factor here, and in measure 55 this
melody eases the return of the more typical orchestration of the piece's begin­
ning, albeit differently colored. The only reminder that Ravel gives of the
strange interlude in measures 51-54 occurs nine measures before the end, when
the cellos play a harmonic, resulting in a chord that is similarly colored. The
combination of solo cello and piccolo at measure 60 is a wonderful coloristic
touch; the hollow-sounding piccolo in these measures presents a striking con­
trast to the very quiet solo flute line that follows, which descends into its rich
but breathy, mid to lower register. The return of the exact opening colors in the
last five measures is a clever stroke, aided by the harmonics in the beautiful
viola chord.

exam ple

1 7 - 1 2 . Ravel, Ma mere Voye, "Petit poucet" (complete)

a . PIANO F O U R -H A N D VERSION

\

SECONDO
Trfesmod&£ ( J = 66)

PRIMO

Trfesmod6r6 ( J= f

.

ж
1Л* нтмМпК т

д тш

д

!■Д е 1 -1 I J

и

\

PRA CTIC E

TH E STU D Y O F O RCH ESTRATIO N

ORCHESTRATION

IN

702

66

J si

k ip

f c n

t - ^

-т Щ

h

Т

_ i —
----------- ---------------------------- ' ' '
72

" -------"

- ------------

PP

- -----

77

p

i

.rn r'iji'

l ^

l

J jT f T i B L

CD-5ATR. 7 3

Un pewretenu

__ .___

^ i . i i , 1 1n
s

i

~
fr- -

||

ЛЧ

1

Щ

b . O R CH E ST R A L VERSION

PRA CTICE

703

ORCHESTRATION

IN

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

22

l. Solo

p r a c t i c e
in
o r c h e s t r a t io n

704

T h e S tu d y

o f

O r c h e s tr a tio n

O r ch estra

705

N PRA CTICE

t r a n s c r ib in g f o r

PRACTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

706

T he

S tu d y

o f

o r c h e s t r a t io n

PRA CTICE

707

ORCHESTRATION

IN

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

ay

PRA CTICE

T h e S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

ORCHESTRATION

IN

708

R£ A D D I T I O N A L P I A N O O R C H E S T R A T R A N S C R I P T I O N S F O R S T U D Y

Copland, Piano Variations arranged as Orchestral Variations
Dallapiccola, Variazioni, a transcription of his Quaderno musicale di Annalibera
Musorgsky, Pictures at an Exhibition: compare the transcriptions by Ravel and
Stokowski
Ravel, Le Tombeau de Couperin; Vaises nobles et sentimentales; Rapsodie espagnole;
Alborada del gracioso
Respighi-Rossini, La Boutique fantasque
Satie-Debussy, Trois gymnopedies
Schuman, Variations on America (from Ives's organ version)

Transcribing from Small Chamber Ensemble to Orchestra
Stravinsky, Transcription of Pergolesi's Trio Sonata in G major
Stravinsky had the extraordinary ability to take preexisting materials—that
is, works written by other composers such as Bach, Tchaikovsky, and others—
and adapt them in his own works. Yet they all sound like Stravinsky; he was al­
ways able to manipulate the music so that in the end it had the Stravinsky
touch. Invariably, Stravinsky would become thoroughly familiar with the past
composer's entire oeuvre and study that composer's compositional and orchestrational techniques. Only after this in-depth exploration did he set about to
transcribe the older work.
As the Sinfonia for his Pulcinella ballet (which he later made into a suite)
Stravinsky chose the first movement of the G major Trio Sonata, a work from
the Baroque period presumed to be by Giovanni Battista Pergolesi (1710-1736).*
Stravinsky's transcription at once captured the spirit of the Baroque period and
sounded quite new and fresh, even though it was based on preexisting sources.
We will carefully study the manner in which Stravinsky scored this piece to find

‘ T he nineteenth-century m usicologist H ugo R iem ann first attributed this piece to
P ergolesi, and it is his edited version o f th e piece that is used in Exam ple 17-13. M usidologists
have since discovered that this w ork is no t by Pergolesi bu t rather by on e of his contem po­
raries, D om enico Gallo.

T R A N S C R IB IN G F O R O R C H E S T R A

his modus operandi, a pursuit that can teach us how to make similar successful
transcriptions.
Stravinsky scored the trio sonata for an instrumental combination that re­
flects the concerto grosso tradition of the late Baroque period, with a concertino
group (in Stravinsky's version, the solo quintet) pitted against a string orchestra
or ripieno (in Stravinsky's version, the orchestral quintet). The adaptation itself
is rather straightforward. Stravinsky changes the notation so that 1 meter is re­
tained most of the way through, thereby ensuring fewer ensemble problems.
Stravinsky also reinterprets some of the ornaments, such as the mordent at the
end of measure 4 in the trio version, which becomes a double grace note in the
transcription (measure 5). Stravinsky must have acknowledged the many dy­
namic markings in the version of the trio sonata from which he made his tran­
scription; these were placed there in the nineteenth century by the editor Hugo
Riemann. Since Stravinsky's dynamic markings are different from those of
Riemann, we can surmise that he either chose to ignore Riemann's or to alter the
dynamics even further. Notice that Stravinsky begins the first phrase forte. In
addition, he orchestrates the dynamic change between the first and second
phrases by lightening the texture of the second phrase (measures 5-6); then, by
dropping out the winds, horns, and double bass, he creates a color change that
makes the entrance of the solo oboe and bassoon at measure 7 sound very fresh.
The bassoon's melodic counterpoint in measures 7-10 emphasizes the impor­
tant harmony notes as they are indicated in the original piece's figured bass.
Riemann chose to realize the harmony in this passage one way; Stravinsky does
it sometimes more simply, other times more contrapuntally, but rarely changing
the harmonic intentions of the original composer. Instead, his main concern is
color change, which he accomplishes smoothly and gracefully, never breaking
up a phrase needlessly but rather always preserving its shape. For this reason
the melodies in Stravinsky's version come through quite clearly.
e x a m p l e

17-13.

Stravinsky, Transcription of an Eighteenth-Century Work in

His Pulcinella
a . "PERG OLESl" (GALLO), TRIO SONATA IN G MAJOR, FIRST MOVE­
MENT, MM. 1-15 (CONTINUO REALIZATION BY HUGO RIEMANN)
M oderato

/

709

IN P R A C T I C E
ORCHESTRATION

710

T h e S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Vln. 1 [ f k. L j ^ : } л

M
X
J> j

i r £ ^

l

‘j j i н

f c j- m

-i-

dim.

~

t - .
o.i.

Vln.2

<]

^ p
w
>

v— ■
—■

p

~

n
=—

—

v
i B

Vic.

a

i

2 > -

- =

-- - f 7

J> -

— £ -------------

>

T

- f l

f-p-

nsn

Pno. •
. i
>

. r

, t ^

5

=

------------- :

=

»

j n

J *

"

1. -

s

l¥
■■

[_ J1 -

f *>
1=1=

t L I

Vln. 1

ir.JI- Г
$

—

—

- ^

•tr,---- ^

--------------- -q

—О--------------------------------------------------

=
<r
L ja

Pp

г

—

я

<r
p a

1r.-----^

- Г

- -

д

г

Г f-s

Vln.2

Vic.

.

-

L .L

1

i

Г

^ M Г-

4

«

•+ —?

-

~

—

1

щ

ш

ш

,,

1

Vln. 1

Vln.2

Vic.

Ш

-P - L t E f lr

W

Pno. '

r

- g

r

ш

i i f j m

r

m

J

m

F

O rc h estra

CD-5/TR. 74

711

PR A C TIC E

b. S T R A V IN S K Y , P U L C IN E L LA , SIN F O N IA , MM. 1-15

fo r

IN

t r a n s c r ib in g

1

ORCHESTRATION

Allegro moderate ( J = 90)

ORCHESTRATION

IN

PRA CTICE

T r a n sc r ib in g

f o r

O rc h estra

713

Schoenberg, Transcription of Brahms's G Minor Piano Quartet
We will now examine some of the techniques Schoenberg used in his tran­
scription of Brahms's G minor Piano Quartet. It is obvious here, as it was in the
Pergolesi-Stravinsky example, that Schoenberg was intimately familiar with
Brahms's compositional and orchestral style, the most important precondition
for transcribing any work. On the whole, Schoenberg does not change any of the
harmony of the Brahms work; except for a much greater use of the trumpets and
xylophone in the last movement, as well as the Et clarinet throughout, he tries
for a Brahmsian orchestral sound. We will study one excerpt from the score to
leam how Schoenberg deals with color distribution and substitution, as well as
with transcribing the very idiomatic piano part.
The original quartet opens with piano octaves, which Schoenberg tran­
scribes simply for three clarinets. In measure 4, the typical Brahmsian combina­
tion of bassoons, horns, and two clarinets ends the phrase and prepares for the
color constrast of the strings' entrance in measure 5. In both the original and the
transcription the string sound is first heard in measure 5; but instead of dou­
bling this string part at pitch as Brahms did, Schoenberg uses octave doubling,
which creates a richer sound and perhaps also compensates for the similarity of
instrumental color (first violins and cellos in Schoenberg's version versus cello
and piano in Brahms's). In any case the violins and cellos would swallow each
other if they were doubled at pitch. The entrance of the viola in the quartet is
taken by the horn, which makes the upcoming violin entrance sound more
poignant. The switch of the Hauptstimme, or main melody, between choirs is not
only colorful but also emphasizes the pseudo-fragmented presentation of the
original Brahms theme: two measures, one measure, two measures and a beat,
and so forth. Measures 6-10 are more richly orchestrated, but still reproduce the
smooth texture and soft dynamic of the original. At measure 11 a bridge pas­
sage begins and with it, an entirely new texture.
e x a m

p l e

1 7 - 1 4 .

Schoenberg, Transcription of a Brahms Piano Quartet

a . BRAHMS, PIANO QU A RTET IN G M IN O R , O P. 25, FIRST MO VEM ENT,
MM.

1-10

Гft
Ж

!

714

TH E STU D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

ORCHESTRA TION

CD-S/TR- 7 5

b . OR C H E ST R A L VE RS ION BY SC H O E N B ER G
Allegro ( J = 132)

We urge you to obtain scores of both the Brahms Quartet and Schoenberg's
orchestration of it; so much can be learned from comparing the two. Even
though Schoenberg tried to remain faithful to the Brahmsian orchestral sound,
his more soloistic use of trumpets and his use of the Et clarinet and xylophone,
especially in the final movement of the piece, create a more twentieth-century
sound than its nineteenth-century origins would suggest. The xylophone in the
final movement, called Rondo alia zingarese, gives a gypsy flavor to the work. But

Schoenberg decided to create this ethnic flavor by using a Western instrument
rather than resorting to the more characteristically ethnic cimbalom, which
Kodaly introduced only a few years later into his Hungarian and gypsy pieces.

T r a n s c r ib in g f r o m b a n d o r W in d
E nsem ble to O rchestra
When transcribing band scores to orchestral scores, we deal with two large per­
forming organizations, the first of indefinite and the second of definite size. We
know that the orchestral complement consists of whatever the composer speci­
fies; except for the fluctuating number of strings, if a part is specified for two
players—for instance, for two flutes—it will be played by exactly two flutes. In
the average band the situation is different; if there are three clarinet parts, for
example, as many as fifteen clarinetists may play each part. (Therefore, when
the composer desires a solo clarinet to play a particular passage in music for
band, he or she must write the word solo in the first clarinetist's part.) The po­
tentially massive sound of the band's clarinet section should be kept in mind
when transcribing from band to orchestra, for there is no equivalent to this
within the orchestra.
Whether a certain piece sounds better in its band or orchestral version is a
rhetorical question; it depends on the taste of the composer, the performers, and
the audience. To argue whether "Elsa's Procession" by Wagner should still be
performed in its band version is fruitless; the question should address a more
fundamental problem: If no orchestra is available, is it not better for players and
audience to experience this great work in a band transcription than never to
hear it at all?
In fact, the two media have their own peculiar sounds; no orchestra can be
made to sound exactly like a band, or vice versa. Even so, there are many simi­
larities between writing for orchestra and for band. For instance, we treat the
wind and brass instruments themselves (their playing techniques, ranges, tone
colors, strengths and weaknesses of sound) in the same way. And we always
need to strive to keep the choirs of whatever ensemble we are writing for well
balanced.
As we concern ourselves with the task of transcribing from one medium to
another, we need to be mindful of taste and good judgment; our decisions
should not lead to loss of the work's musical content or the composer's basic de­
cisions about the quality of each sound. We should sensitively realize the dy­
namics, the implied colors, and the emotional "feel" of the original sound or
section of the work. And we must retain the composer's intentions of which
parts predominate and which act as background. This last consideration is often
crucial when assigning a particular melody or a specific harmonic or contrapun­
tal background to an instrument or group of instruments.
We can gain much insight into how composers have treated these two per­
forming media by examining transcriptions the composers themselves have
made. In this section we will examine two transcriptions from band to orchestra
by Darius Milhaud and Arnold Schoenberg, dwelling on the following consid­
erations:

715

PR A CTICE

O rc h estra

IN

fo r

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n sc r ib in g

PRACTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

716

t h e

S tu d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

1. How much of the band scoring was kept in the orchestral transcription?
How is the composer's view of each medium reflected in the transcription?
2. Were significant instrumental substitutions made to the solos? Why? Can
you find a logic behind these changes?
3. How were the parts for band instruments that are absent from the standard
orchestra handled in the orchestration? What role did the strings inherit?
4. Were any changes in notation necessary?
We must be especially mindful of how the composers handled color and as­
signed foreground-background ideas with the addition of strings.

Milhaud, Suite frangaise, Band and
Orchestral Versions
Because both the band and orchestral versions of Milhaud's Suite frangaise were
written for high school groups, the composer took care to minimize all technical
difficulties and use a smaller range for the individual instruments. Both band
and orchestral versions give off a Gallic flavor melodically and coloristically
(reminiscent of French band music). The plentiful doubling in the band version,
however, produces a heavier texture than that in the orchestral version.
In the first example (Example 17-15), all clarinets play in the band version,
both in unison and in octaves with each other, the higher El> clarinet line also
doubled by the flutes. The horns and bass saxes play the countermelody in oc­
taves, and the short chords are scored for timpani, string bass, and all the trom­
bones. In contrast, the orchestral transcription has a lighter, chamber-music
quality, with the first violins playing in a fairly weak register and all woodwind
parts assigned to only one instrument. When the solo first violin enters in mea­
sure 29 it is doubled an octave higher, only by one flute.

PRA CTICE

a. BAND VERSION, MM. 25-36
^ Andante

IN

1 7 - 1 s. Milhaud, Suite franqaise, second movement

ORCHESTRATION

e x a m p le

-j-,

PRACTICE

со-5/ти

IN

b . ORCHESTRAL VERSIO N, MM . 2 5 - 3 6

719

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

t h e

ORCHESTRATION

s t u d y

o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

Where the band version sustains the same or similar colors throughout the
passage, the orchestral transcription constantly alternates between doubling in­
struments: now brass, now woodwinds, which provides coloristic variety.

IN

PRA CTICE

720

e x a m p l e

C D -5 fT R . 7 8

17 - 16 . Milhaud, Suite franqaise, fifth movement

a . BAND VE RS I ON, MM. 1 - 1 1

PRA CTICE
IN

721

ORCHESTRATION

T r a n s c r ib in g f o r O r c h e s t r a

PRACTIC
IN
ORCHESTRATION

722

t h e

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

b. OR C H E ST R A L V E R S IO N , MM . 1-10

e x a m p l e

17-17.

Milhaud. Suite franqaise, fifth movement

a. B A N D v e r s i o n , мм. 50-57
50

Anlm*

PRA CTICE
IN

Aware that many high school wind players may be better skilled than the
string players, as in Example 17-16, the composer doubles the violin melody with
the flutes at the higher octave in the orchestral version so that the first violins
never have to go beyond third position. Here, as in many other places, he leaves
out the brass altogether until its significant entrance in measure 57, whereas in
the band version he has the brass play throughout the whole passage.

723

ORCHESTRATION

T R A N S C R IB IN G F O R O R C H E S T R A

PRA CTICE
IN
ORCHESTRATION

724

th e

S t u d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

t h e

S t u d y o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Schoenberg, Theme and Variations,
Op. 43a and b
The orchestral version of Arnold Schoenberg's Theme and Variations (Op. 43b)
is more a recomposition of the band version (Op. 43a) than a straight tran­
scription. The composer did not simply substitute strings for the nonorchestral instruments (saxophones, euphonium, and so forth) but radically
changed instrumental colors to make the two versions sound completely dif­
ferent. For instance, in the very opening of the orchestral version (Example
17-18b) Schoenberg replaces a typically thick band color of clarinets and
oboes in unison (Example 17-18a) with the clear solo voice of a trumpet; even
more striking is the radical change in dynamics—forte for band, piano for
orchestra.

;

( b a n d )

Poco allegro (J = 84)

PR A C TIC E

4 3a

o p .

IN

a .

ORCHESTRATION

17-18. Schoenberg, Theme and Variations, mm. 1-6

e x a m p l e

N PRACTICfc.

728

T h e S tu d y o f O r c h e s t r a t io n

b. o p . 43b (o r c h e s tr a )

O rc h estra

729

e x a m p l e

a .

o p .

22

IN

Schoenberg's method of substituting instruments has immediate conse­
quences in the first variation, where the orchestral oboe plays the trumpet's line in
the band version; in the orchestral version the oboe becomes the principal voice
(measures 22-23), whereas in the band version a completely different part, played
by the flutes and clarinets, is marked as the principal voice.
17-19. Schoenberg, Theme and Variations, Variation I, mm. 22-26
43a

( b a n d )

C D -5 / T R

F ood allegro
VAR. 1
r—

3

fF

84

? .

FI. 1 , 2

Bsn. 1,2

Bt Cl. 1
B t CL 2<

Bt Cl. 3

El»Alt. Sax. 1,2

F Hn. 3,4

Bar.
Euph.

ppv Г

LT

-f
Tutti

Tba.
^ 5 9 .
pizz.___________________________________________________ |

Str. Bs.

P R A C T I C E

fo r

5 3
____ ____________________ _______

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

P R A C T I C E

730

T h e S tu d y o f o r c h e s tr a tio n

b.

o

p

.

43b (

o

r

c

h

e s t

r

a

)

IN

C D -5 / T R . 0 5

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

P o co allegro

a tempo

22

Гр

&

Ob. 1 .2

E n g . Hn.

B k C L l.2

B> B s . Cl .

Bsn. 1,2

F H n . 1.2

F H n .3 ,4

rpmuted
C T p t .l
TutU
(con GOfd.)

Vln. 1

Tutti (con sord.)

Tutti (con eortL) 3

Vln.2
Tutti (con sord.)

( co d sord .)

(con sord.)

The muted upper strings and pizzicato cellos and basses in Variation I give off a
much softer color than the clarinets, euphonium, cornets, horns, and saxes. The
greater delicacy of the orchestral version contrasts with the band's more gutsy
sound. This change of emphasis was no doubt deliberate on Schoenberg's part;
he was a fine orchestrator who could have simulated the band sound quite read­
ily in his orchestral transcription. But instead he gave us two different ways of
expressing the same musical idea.

Let us now study one other variation in greater depth Although the flute
solo at the beginning of Variation IV was transferred intact, the orchestra has a
more subdued accompaniment. The clarinet, muted trumpets, and baritones of
the band version have been replaced by muted solo strings and tutti strings
playing col legno battuto (measures 106-113). Then, with the orchestral trumpets
resuming their original role (starting in measure 113), solo strings continue their
extremely soft accompaniment instead of the much more piercing muted cor­
nets, trumpets, and baritones of the band version. At the end of the flute solo (mea­
sure 122) the clarinet color of the band version is replaced by an oboe-English
horn combination in the orchestra, and the alto clarinet-alto saxophone combi­
nation is assigned to muted trombones. Remember that a section in a band may
consist of several instruments playing a solo part, which would necessitate
heavier scoring for its accompaniment. Notice the "fluttering" figures (su/ potiticello) in the second violin that Schoenberg invents in measures 122-123; these
have no equivalent in the band setting. A drastic change of color occurs in the
orchestra when the flugelhom's theme of the band version is played by the low
flute and high bassoon, and the baritone-euphonium part is given to the very
soft clarinets (measures 124—125). Strangely enough, the next two measures of
the orchestral version are an exact transcription of the band version. In measure
129, we feel a lightness in the orchestral version that is lacking in that for the
band; the trumpet is kept muted and the oboe melody is not doubled, as it is in
the band version. Then (measures 132-139), we have a wonderful exchange of
high and low tessitura when the flutes and clarinets, doubled in the lower oc­
tave by the second violin, play the first phrase, and the violins in the upper reg­
ister (measures 136-137), doubled by the winds at the lower octave, play the
next. This scoring is more sophisticated and less piercing than what we find in
the original band score. Both versions end the variation in a similar manner, ex­
cept that in the orchestral version the violas provide a much softer sound than
the band version’s flugelhom. The muted lower strings bring about a peaceful
close more easily than the tubas and basses in the band version possibly could.
We urge you to study the rest of this marvelous piece on your own. You can
learn a great deal about orchestral and band colorations, substitutions, and sen­
sitive alterations, all of which will increase your roster of useful techniques in
writing for orchestra as well as for band.

731

P R A C T I C E

O rc h estra

IN

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

T he Stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p le

N

P R A C T I C E

732

CD-5/TR. 86

a. o p . 4 3 a ( b a n d )
T em p o di Valzer

I

1 7-20. Schoenberg, Theme and Variations, Variation 4 (complete)

( J

=

60)

и

5

Г Г 1- ; '

и

I
Et Alt Cl.

m bs.ci.

BtTpt. 1,2

i 1 ‘j f P

^ r ,

________

-

-

IN

------ ^

^

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

/20
F li,2

Bsn. 1,2

в ; ci. i

jM

=

Soto

=

iT y q ?
tfI

J s --------- --- -----------„

df g .

,

Z

<~1

Ы

щГ

fp
Oy *

* J T

.

& C L 2

mCL3

ш
f

1

~

—

V-1
в

Ai t . a

B ^ B s . CL

a

ГПЗ M .- J n =
HLr ■«* J —

^
H it
Ф

—

—

—

~

-T>

t

j-Jfej

i

- j) У

|

-f

~

V

-—

—

5

-

i , h .

—

-=-1

■

W

#

=

- J j

1’

j

^

Al t . S a x . 1 , 2

BlTfen. S a x .

El Bar. Sox.

BtCor. 1 ,2

SЫ
Ф 1

v ~ ~ -------------

^frHrr-=z=i
r e 7 -^=r-=ti
*=

. . c u ---------------- *
Г
^ Ц у

— i—

^ И А -----------------. ----------------

^ s. - -

L-ft

B^Tpt. 1 , 2

J l

» 1

#

-----------------

—
. Lj i ,

T T UT

Trgl.
Tamb.

0

— = *

open

lp

r tJli. -— j t bghM.MH
Г

Г

9doto

1

< r- — — p-

I’l j j i a i
R

Г*

тж-

muted

t ,

1 ■ , --------------------

Bar.
Euph.
Tba.

i
muted

open
BtFlhn. 1,2

1 -J

-1 -----

1 M a. T 1 = i = l
Ф 1 V1 1 - 1 =

J

P R A C T I C E

TR>IN S C R IB IN G FO R O R C H E S T R A

■—

t ^

-

ty P^

r f h 1r------rrr- - ^dotof
u ЕУ=
- C

h r > , ~t „ ь v ~
g ^
jj » j - T

4

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

734

T h e S tudy
127

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Orc h estra

735

I N

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

P R A C T I C E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

736

BICL

BVCL

BVCL

EUAll. Sax. 1,
Bl Ten. Saj
Et Bar. Sa:

Bi Cor. 1,
BtFlhn. 1,

FHn. 1,

Tempo di vatse ( J = 60)

737

P R A C T I C E

Orc h estra

ft-7-----------IN

b. OP. 43 b (O R C H E S TR A )

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

738

th e

s tu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

739

P R A C T I C E

O r c h es tr a

IN

for

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

N PR A CTICE

740 T h e s t u d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

BtCL 1,2

P R A C T I C E

741

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IM

T R A N S C R IB IN G FO R O R C H E S T R A

TR A N S C R IB IN G T O V A R IO U S A V A ILA B LE
In s t r u m e n t a l C o m b i n a t i o n s
■— ■■H i « f H

— ГМ ГШ

A great many orchestral, chamber, and piano works may be adapted to meet the
special circumstances in which we may find ourselves. Transcribing any work,
especially a standard orchestral work, for an often bizarre ensemble may tax our
orchestrational skill to the limits. We must be aware of the heterogeneous na­
ture of the available instruments as well as the limited skills that each player
may bring to the group. However, these conditions should spark our imagina­
tion rather than constrain us.
There is no reason for not transcribing a work to any medium because it
contains, for example, an English horn solo that would not sound right on any
other instrument. Any transcription will necessarily sound differently from the
original. But if we follow the steps for transcribing that are given below, if we
respect and love the piece we are adapting, and if we know the piece's form

P R A C T I C E
IN
O R C H E S T R A T I O N

742

The

s tu d y

o f O r c h e s tr a tio n

and original orchestration well, we will be able to make a very satisfactory
transcription.
How does one go about such a task?
1. Reduce the orchestral work to a piano score. If it is a very complex work, a
piano four-hand or two-piano score will be even more helpful.*
2. Carefully designate the sections in the piano score as tutti, half tutti, soli, or
solo.
3. Label the solo instruments and determine whether you have adequate
soloists in the group. If an instrumental substitution is called for, you may
want to choose an instrument that closely approximates the original one or a
combination of two instruments that give a similar result. If this is not possi­
ble because of the limited choices you have available, select an instrument
that possesses the range and dynamic possibilities suitable to the solo.
Other orchestration books supply a list of substitution instruments. We pre­
fer instead that you experiment with the many possibilities, using the knowl­
edge you have gained from listening to and analyzing the piece to decide which
instrument is the best substitute. Consider the range, quality of the sound, given
register, and the skill of the player for which the part is intended.
Certainly use a good pianist, if one is available in the group. Rather than
having the pianist play the reduction of the piece from beginning to end, use the
piano as another orchestral instrument, to lend body to tutti sections, provide
arpeggiated accompaniments, render the harp parts, take occasional single line
solos, or double solos, perhaps in the higher registers.
If a percussion player is present, write a percussion part only where the
music absolutely calls for it. Remember, overusing percussion instruments can
obliterate the rest of the orchestral sound, no matter the size of the group.
Most amateur performers have problems playing in the extreme higher or
lower registers; on some instruments, such as the flute, oboe, bassoon, horn,
trumpet, tuba, and their auxiliaries, the very lowest notes are quite problematic.
To help you write appropriate parts for nonprofessionals we give approximate,
comfortable ranges for each instrument in Appendix A. If you go much beyond
these, your transcription will not work, no matter how brilliantly you execute it.
If you can choose the work to transcribe, you might consider selecting a rela­
tively unknown work because: (1) the players and audience won't automatically
compare the transcription with the original; and (2) performers and audience
alike may benefit from being exposed to pieces of music that, for one reason or
another, have not been widely disseminated.
Let us now simulate a typical situation that may confront us in a school or
community: transcribing pieces for our orchestral ensemble. In this exercise we
will transcribe a portion of a work originally written for chamber ensemble and
a portion of an overture originally written for full orchestra. In each case the
original is given. For the second piece, the Poet and Peasant overture by Franz
von Suppe, we also provide a piano four-hand reduction. Each transcription
presents only one possibility among a number of solutions. After working with
these two examples you should be able to make similar transcriptions, includ­
ing those given in the workbook.
"In the workbook we have included exercises that focus on reducing orchestral scores to
piano scores to help you develop this skill.

The following list gives the players in our imaginary ensemble, as well as
the relative technical proficiency of each player:*
2 flutes; both rather good
3 clarinets in Bl>; the first very good, the others fair
1 alto saxophone; quite good
2 trumpets in Bl>; fair
1 euphonium; very good
1 timpani player (three drums); not too adept at changing pitch
1 percussion player; counting is not her greatest strength
5 first violins; three are excellent to fifth position, two are good to third posi­
tion
4 second violins; ah are rather mediocre and cannot play beyond first posi­
tion
3 cellos; the first is excellent, the other two are mediocre
1 double bass; not too proficient
This fairly typical cast of characters exhibits common instrumental gaps: no
double reeds, no horns, and no violas. If there were a trombone or two, or even
a tuba, our transcription could easily accommodate these instruments.
For our first transcription (Example 17-21), the main theme, which is pre­
sented in the original by one instrumental color (the first violin starting in
measure 4 and the second violin starting in measure 11), is orchestrated using
two completely different timbres: clarinet, then trumpet, the latter giving the
theme a new character. The bass drum and timpani, however, add a bit of
pathos to this solemn piece.
e x a m p le

1 7-21 . Schumann, Piano Quintet, Op. 44 , second movement,

mm. 1-16
a. O R IG IN A L VERSION
In Modo d’una Marcia
Un poco largamente ( J = 66)

"Please refer to Appendix A for nonprofessional instrument ranges.

743

P R A C T I C E

Orc h estra

IN

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

e
i c
t
c

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O rch estration

in

p

r

a

744

Vln. 1
Vln.2
VUl
Vlc.

Pno.

CD-5/TR. 8 8

b . NEW O R C H E S T R A L VERS I ON
Un poco largamente

P R A C T I C E

t h e S tu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

For the first rendition of the theme the harmonic accompaniment, played in
the original mostly by the piano and lower strings, is distributed among the
strings at the beginning of the new version to ensure that it is played quietly
under the clarinet melody. With the trumpet's presentation of the theme in
measure 11 the accompaniment changes from strings to winds; notice that in
these measures the euphonium part strengthens the bass line. The flutes open
up the range of the piece and add extra sheen by being given the opening
piano line (which recurs in measure 10) but an octave higher.
For the transcription of von Suppd's Poet and Peasant overture we have also
included a piano four-hand version (Example 17-22b, p. 750); when transcribing
a large orchestral work for a particular ensemble of players you may wish to
start by making your own piano reduction.

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

746

e x a m p l e 1 7 -22 . Von Suppe, Poet and Peasant Overture, mm. 1 -3 5
a. O R IG IN A L ORCHESTRAL VERSION

1

Andante maestoso

Orc h estra
P R A C T I C E

747

IN

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

749

P R A C T I C E

O r c h es tr a

IN

for

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

T r a n s c r ib in g

T r a n s c r ib in g
C. NEW ORCH ESTRAL VERSION

for

O r c h es tr a

CD-5/TR. 8 9

751

2

Itj
•
*
•i
n
I

P R A C T I C E

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

752

BVCL 1

m (фшш шшшш M i шш §Iг;., jiitj
r-3-i

B tC l.2,3

m

i—3—
|

I—3-1

I—3“1

I—3-|

I—3~\

I— 3 ~ l _________ I— 3 - 1

T r a n s c r ib in g

for

O r c h es tr a

753

IN P R A C T I C E
O R C H E S T R A T IO N

754

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

O rc h estra

755

P R A C T I C E

fo r

O R C H E S T R A T I O N

IN

T r a n s c r ib in g

Our very simple transcription (Example 17-22c) opens with a string fanfare
to save the brass section of the amateur group for the buildup starting in mea­
sure 5. Starting in measure 9 the color changes from strings to clarinets in our
transcription; this simulates the change of color from brass to strings in the orig­
inal; in these measures the trumpets and euphonium are also heard, and they
again help make the crescendo to fortissimo in measure 13. In the transcription a
solo violinist presents the first theme in measure 16, since this person is one of
the strongest players in the amateur group. The clarinet is given the arpeggiated
accompaniment played originally by the harp, and the underlying chords are
played by the soft strings to mimic the lower tones of the harp as well as the sus­
tained notes played by the original version's woodwind section. This new orches­
tration, of clarinet and strings, sticks close to those traditionally found in pieces
composed during the nineteenth century. Like the Schumann transcription given
in Example 17-21, the von Suppe transcription offers a more colorful orchestra­
tion, changing instruments for each rendition of the theme or its accompaniment.
Thus, in measures 23-27 the arpeggiated accompaniment of the transcription
switches to two violins and the sustained notes to the clarinets (in the original
these parts remain with the harp, clarinets, and bassoons). The melody also
changes timbre; here, it is played by the flute (in the original the melody is re­
tained by the cello). At measure 28 the clarinets resume their arpeggiated accom­

756

t h e *s t u d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

paniment, which underlies the melody now played by the entire first violin sec­
tion. A solo cadenza in measure 30, played by the first violin, leads to the presen­
tation of new accompanying material played only by the winds and brass and not
also by the strings, as in the original. When the second theme, played by the vio­
lins and violas, is heard in measures 33-35, the instrumental color sounds quite
fresh compared with that of the original, again played by solo cello. Notice also
that the double bass supports the actual bass part throughout the piece; often in
amateur ensembles the bass part needs strengthening.
в additional o r c h e s t r a l tr anscrip tions for study

Bach-Casella, Ciaconna (Milan: Carisch, 1936)
Bach-P. Klenovsky (Henry Wood), Organ Toccata and Fugue in D Minor
(London: Oxford University Press, 1934)
Bach-Walton, Sheep May Safely Graze (London: Oxford University Press,
1934/1943)
Debussy-Ansermet, Six ipigraphes antiques (Paris: Durand, n.d.)
Debussy-H. Henkemans, Twelve Preludes (Amsterdam: Donemus, 1971)
Faure-H. Rabaud, "Dolly" Suite (Paris: Hamelle, 1922)
Schubert-L. Weiner, Grand Rondeau, Op. 107 (Budapest: Editio Musica, 1961)
Shostakovich-M. Kelemen, Eight Preludes, Op. 34 (Herny Litolff-C. F. Peters,
1971)
Sweelinck-J. Mul, Mein junges Leben hat ein End (Amsterdam: Donemus, 1961)

1 8

of

T he P reparatio n
S core and parts

"To err is human; to forgive is not our polio/."
The sentiment in this paraphrase of a benevolent adage is particularly appo­
site to the preparation of scores and parts. Although conductors and orchestral
performers may occasionally make mistakes, these very human humans usually
do not forgive the errors of the orchestrator, the copyist, or the composer.
Rehearsals can degenerate into traumatic grumbling sessions when frequent er­
rors in the score or parts interfere with the smooth performance of a work. In
fact, many pieces have been denied a hearing because of just such situations.
It is most appropriate, therefore, that we discuss and review the correct pro­
cedures for laying out a score and extracting parts in the most professional
manner.
Here are the considerations that must govern that process:
1. The score must be dear, easy to read, and as unproblematic as possible. All
new, different, or original notation must be carefully explained so that when
a conductor reads the score the method of realizing this notation is immedi­
ately apparent.
2. The score must be organized logically, with every instrument appropriately
labeled; the vertical alignment of the music must be accurate so that all notes
and beats coincide. The spacing on the page, indicating the separation of
choirs, must be immediately discemable, for a conductor has to read all the
lines simultaneously.
3. In addition to rehearsal numbers or measure numbers, the score must con­
tain every detail for every instrument, including special instructions for
bowing, tonguing, or articulations.

TH E ORCHESTRAL SCORE SETUP
The instruments of a large symphony orchestra appear on a full score page in an
unvarying order:
Piccolo
Hutes 1 and 2
Oboes 1 and 2
English horn
757

T h e St u d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Clarinet in D or El> (the required key of the instrument indicated at the be­
ginning of the score)
Clarinet 1 and 2 in Bl>or A (indicated at the beginning of the score)
Bass clarinet
Bassoons 1 and 2
Contrabassoon
Horns 1 ,2 ,3 ,4 (keys of the horns indicated at the beginning of the score)
Trumpets 1, 2, 3 (keys of the trumpets indicated at the beginning of the
score)
Trombones 1,2,3
Tuba
Timpani (number of drums should be given at the beginning of the score)
Percussion (all instruments must be listed at the beginning of the score)
Harp
Piano (or celesta)
Strings
When preparing a score to be read by a conductor or sent to a publisher for
publication, it is imperative to leave space between the choirs on the score page.
If you write out a score by hand, leave an empty line between the winds and the
brass, between the brass and the percussion, between the percussion and the
harp, and between the (harp) piano and the strings. If you construct a score via
Finale or another software program, simply leave a little extra space between
these choirs in your setup of the score page.
If you require additional instruments, you should fit them into their appro­
priate family on the score page: Wagner tubas or euphonium between the trom­
bones and the tuba, saxophones between the bass clarinet and the bassoons.
(Note that in some American scores the saxophones are printed below the bas­
soons or even below the brass, just above the timpani.)
The score layout given in Example 18-1 is for the entire orchestra. Notice
that all staves are connected with a single bar line at the beginning of the line;
heavy brackets set off the choirs; and an additional brace clarifies instruments of
a family. Bar lines should be drawn only through the individual complete
choirs. It is absolutely wrong to draw a bar line through the entire orchestral
score, for it obscures the choirs and deters the rapid reading of the score by the
conductor.
Key signatures should appear in their traditional position right after the clef
signs and before the time signature. Time signatures may be repeated on every
instrumental line or enlarged so that one time signature is given for each choir.
Tempo markings should always be placed at the top of the score and repeated
in the space that separates each choir. Dynamics are usually placed below the
requisite staff, unless two instruments share a staff and two different sets of dy­
namics are required.

T h e P r e p a r a t io n

exam ple

18- 1. Score Layout

o f sc o r e and

Pa r ts

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

If the composition has an independent piccolo part it appears above the flute
parts. If the second or third flute player instead doubles on piccolo, the piccolo
part will appear on the line normally read by that player. The alto flute part is
always placed below the regular flute parts; most often it is doubled by the third
flute.
Likewise, the second or third oboist may double on English horn, a clar­
inetist on bass clarinet, a bassoonist on contrabassoon. To indicate that a player
is to change instruments, the instruction "change to __________ —or in Italian,
"muta in __________ —should be written above the player's staff in the score
as well as the player's part and given well ahead of time. A change of key signa­
ture or clef that is required because the new instrument is in a different transpo­
sition should also appear at the point of change.
From time to time, the horns are grouped 1, 3 and 2, 4 on two staves when
each pair plays a great many unison passages as high and low horns. However,
more often Horns 1 and 2 share one staff, 3 and 4 the other.
Trumpets are written on two staves, as are trombones. Trumpet 1 is sepa­
rated from Trumpets 2 and 3; the two tenor trombones (Trb. 1, 2) occupy the
first staff and the bass trombone the second (Trb. 3).
The above discussion concerns only the initial page of a score; subsequent
score pages should follow the same model, except that you may use abbrevia­
tions for the instrument names. It is not necessary to repeat the transposition of
a particular instrument on every page unless there is a change from one trans­
posing instrument to another in the middle of a work, such as Bt clarinet switch­
ing to A clarinet.
Although some composers use all kinds of notational short cuts, such as
leaving out clefs or key signatures after the initial page, we strongly discourage
this custom—even though it appears extensively in jazz charts. Although the
cutout score originated by Stravinsky that was used ubiquitously throughout
the 1960s and early 1970s is no longer popular, you will encounter it often in
mid-twentieth-century scores. In this kind of score, the staves begin where the
particular instrument starts to play and stop as soon as that instrument ceases to
play. Notice in the following example that each instrument is always placed in
the correct choir and is labeled every time it enters.

e x a m p l e i е-г. Stravinsky, Movements for Piano and Orchestra, m m . 13-26,
Cutout Score
j > =

110

762

T he

s tu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

T he Red uced Score
After the initial page, subsequent pages may contain more than one system, each
of which shows only those instruments playing at the same time. Systems on
pages such as this are called reduced scores. When using reduced score pages,
insert two heavy slash marks
between the systems so that it will be easy for
the eye to separate them immediately. Also, clearly mark all the instruments in
all systems appearing in a reduced score and retain the order of choirs as it ap­
pears on the initial page of the score.
exa mple

i e-3. Mahler, Symphony No. 1, first movement

a . F ULL SCORE P AGE , MM.
j

1,2
Ob.'
3

Cl. 1.2

1
Bsn.
2

= 96

269-274

T he
b . REDUCED SCORE PAGE, MM. 2 7 5 - 2 8 7

p r e p a r a t io n

o f s c o r e

and

p a r ts

763

764

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

T he C o n den sed sco r e
When writing educational or commercial music the composer is often asked to
supply a condensed score, in which a full score is compressed to only three or four
staves but which provides all the essential (melodic) pitches, rhythms, and har­
monies contained in the full score. In a condensed score all pitches must be non­
transposed—in other words, every note must sound as written. A regular threeor four-line condensed score, prepared for conductors who are not able to read a
full score fluently, most often uses a staff for each choir. The resulting score may
or may not be playable on the piano, depending on how complex it is. If the
score is to be a piano reduction, it should be written on two staves, omitting all
nonessential octave doublings so that it can be played with two hands. Here are
examples of a full score, condensed score, and a piano score of the same passage.
exa mple

i e-д. Brahms, Symphony No.l, first movement, mm. 82-87

a. FULL SCORE
A lle g ro

zu2

Ob.

Ben.

Hn.

Tpt

T h e P r e p a r a t io n
b . CONDE NS E D SCORE
A lle g r o

c. p i a n o

r e d u c t io n

of

Score

and

Parts

765

T he

s tu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

P r e p a r i n g In d i v i d u a l P a r t s
The clearer the parts the easier it is to perform a work, particularly if the orches­
tral score has a dense texture and contains technically taxing passages. If the
work contains unusual notation it is essential that all notation other than the
standard, universally accepted symbols be carefully explained in a "Guide to
the Notation" at the beginning of the individual part. The composer or orchestrator must also keep in mind that correcting a single wrong note in rehearsals
of professional symphony orchestras might cost upwards of $200 per minute.
Here are some important guidelines to follow in extracting parts from a
score:
1. Use a good-size paper (9V2" X 12V2") with no more than twelve staves on
each page, and provide each player with his or her own part. Strings, of
course, should have one part per stand.
2. Use ink rather than pencil, if you are not using a computer program to make
your score.
3. Make the note heads at least as large as those printed in a published part for
easy visibility. The same holds true for the flags on eighth or sixteenth notes,
the rests, and the thickness of beams denoting rhythmic divisions.
4. Be sure to include rehearsal numbers or letters, or number the measures of
the work by fives or tens in both score and parts. Make certain that every
player has detailed information about what is happening every moment in
the performance, whether he or she is playing or not. Chaos may result if a
rehearsal number or letter or a change of meter is omitted because it occurs
while an instrument is resting. Let us suppose a player has sixteen measures
of rest and the score has rehearsal letters placed every ten measures. Here is
how the part should read:
example 1 8-s. Placing Rehearsal Letters within Measures of Rest
m

This same rule would apply if changes of meter occurred within that rest
period. Now let us suppose that five measures after ГЁ1 is in 3, and the rest of
the measures are Й. This is how the part should read:
example i 8-6. Placing Rehearsal Letters within Measures of Rest in Music
with Changes of Meter

II

0

5. The general problem of page turning must be dealt with when you begin to
lay out a part on a page. In string orchestral parts, the person on the inside of
the stand turns the page, while the one on the outside continues to play so
that a rest is not essential. It is imperative, however, that a woodwind or

T H E P R E P A R A T IO N O F S C O R E A N D P A R T S

brass player has enough time at the end of a page to make the page turn.
Wind or brass players have been known to leave out an entire passage be­
cause there were no rests to free their hands. And even in string parts, you
must consider the weakening effect on an important string passage when
half the section drops out to turn a page.
6. Musical cues are often necessary to facilitate reentry of an instrument after a
long period of rest. The notes in the cued parts should be smaller than those
in the rest of the part. Both the instrument playing that particular cue and
the place where the cue begins should be clearly indicated. Also, the cue
should be transposed to fit the part into which it is written.
e x am ple

18-7.

Musical Cue

Allegro J = 88
Vic.

7. Frequently, parts for oboes, bassoons, violas, and even horns are cross-cued
in other parts so that important lines assigned to these instruments will not
be lost if the original instrument is not available to a particular ensemble.
Particularly in music for school orchestra, cross-cuing is advisable. For in­
stance, important oboe or English horn lines are often cross-cued in the clar­
inet, violin, or muted trumpet parts, depending on where they he in the
register. Bassoons are cross-cued in the clarinet or cello parts, and some­
times a tenor saxophone part is supplied if no bassoon is available. Since vi­
olas are scarce in some high school orchestras, it may be necessary to have a
third violin and a second cello part divide up the viola part; these cross-cues,
however, should be used only if no violas are available. Be certain that all
cross-cuing is indicated in the full score so that the conductor may assign
each substitution.
As mentioned in the chapter on transcriptions, there is no real substitute
for the original instrument. However, cross-cuing will prevent the loss of
important lines even if the cross-cued instrument's sound is a bit removed
from the composer's original intention.
8. The following shortcuts are permissible when copying out parts:
a. Use 8va, IS1”3, or Sbassa designations as much as possible to avoid more
than four ledger lines above or below the staff.
b. When a passage is repeated exactly, you may use repeat marks. It is
helpful to number the repeated measures for easier execution.
e x a m p l e

1 в - s . Numbering Repeated Measures

_rn

2

---* ---

3

4

—

5

6

--- ---

■of
c. Use the abbreviations sim., sempre stacc., sempre legato, and so on to avoid
repeating staccatos, slurs, and other details.

T he

s tu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

e x a m p l e 18-9 . Using Articulation Terms

sim .
or sem prestacc.

9. Two instruments that are written on the same staff in the full score should
have separate parts written out for each player.
e x a m p l e

la -ю. Two Instruments on the Same Staff

a . FULL SCORE

i.

1 .^ -------f-,

n

fU — .

Ob.

*

ff

t

ЧГ

b . PARTS

Generating Scores and Parts Electronically
Since the late 1980s the use of computers and professional software programs
designed to generate music scores have become ubiquitous. All music typeset­
ting programs are as good as the person using them—in other words, an experi­
enced typesetter is able to use any one of them and produce a perfect-looking
score and beautifully clear orchestral parts. Some of the programs present prob­
lems in two areas, which necessitates checking carefully for errors.
The most crucial area concerns the placement of accidentals when two in­
struments are written on the same staff in a full score. Let us look at the follow­
ing example:
e x a m p l e i e - 1 1 . Placement of Accidentals in a Full Score

Two oboes would have no problem reading this passage from the score since
the accidentals, marked on first occurrence only, are valid throughout the mea­
sure. When some computer programs generate the separate parts from this
score, however, they sometimes look this way:

T h e P r e p a r a t io n

o f s c o r e and

ex a m p le ie - 1 2 . Placement of Accidentals in the Resulting Computer-

Generated Parts
Ob. 1

Ob. 2

When this happens, extra accidentals must be added in the full score to ensure
that the parts for both players generated from that score contain all the required
accidentals. Thus, the score passage must read:
exam p le

18-13.

Placement of Additional Accidentals in a Full Score

2 0b.

This score will then generate the following parts:
1 8 - 1 4 . Placement of Additional Accidentals in the Resulting
Computer-Generated Parts
exam p le

Ob. 1

Ob. 2

It is imperative to carefully check each orchestral part as well as the score when
they are electronically generated.
Extra precautions must be taken when electronically generating the score
and parts of a highly chromatic work. The composer often writes an abundance
of accidentals to remind the performer exactly which notes to play. These extra
accidentals are often invaluable to the performance of a complex work, but are
often cut out by the computer typesetting program as "unnecessary" whenever
the accidentals have already appeared in a measure.
In the following passage the El> in the third beat and the Ft and Й of the
fourth beat (circled in the score) are actually gratuitous, yet they should be put
into this very chromatic mix to aid the performer. You must be certain that the
software program complies.
exam ple

i8 -i s.

"Insurance" Accidentals

p a r ts

769

770

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

The second problem area concerns the distorted appearance of slurs and ties
when held over from one system to another. This problem becomes particularly
acute when the measures that contain these slurs and ties initially appear on one
line or in one system but in a subsequent version of the typeset piece are broken
up onto two different lines (see Example 18-16). Some computer programs do
not automatically correct the resulting distortions, which therefore must be re­
paired manually by the computer typesetter.
exam ple

1 8 - 1 6 . Computer-Generated Ties Before Being Repaired Manually

It is hoped that these faults and others like them will be addressed in later, more
sophisticated updates of music typesetting programs.

Proofreading
As a general rule, proofreading your own score and parts is a difficult chore.
Therefore, we urge you to follow a two-step process to ensure a minimum of
errors.
1. Proofread both score and parts thoroughly yourself.
2. Give them to someone else to proofread so that you can make certain even
the smallest detail has not been overlooked. This second step can make the
difference between a flawless first reading (and first impression) and a te­
dious rehearsal, a discouraging affair for both composer and performers.
For a more detailed study of manuscript preparation, we refer you to George
Heussenstamm's very useful handbook, The Norton Manual of Music Notation
(New York: W. W. Norton, 1987), which treats copying out scores by hand.
Other books on this subject include:
Boehm, Lazio. Modem Music Notation. New York: G. Schirmer, 1961.
Donato, Anthony. Preparing Music Manuscript. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: PrenticeHall, 1963.
Read, Gardner. Music Notation. Second Edition. New York: Crescendo
Publishers, a Division of Taplinger Publishing, 1969.
____ . Modem Rhythmic Notation. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1978.
Risatti, Howard. New Music Vocabulary. Urbana: University of Illinois Press,
1975.
Stone, Kurt. Music Notation in the Twentieth Century. New York: W. W. Norton,
1980.
Warfield, Gerald. How to Write Music Manuscript. New York: Longman, 1977.

th e

P r e p a r a t io n

o f

Score

On setting scores electronically, you might wish to consult the following, the
last three of which are trade journals:
Purse, Bill. The Finale Primer: Mastering the Art of Music Notation with Finale 2000,
2d ed. San Francisco: Miller Freeman Books, 2000.
Computer Music Journal. Computer Music Foundation. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
Electronic Musician. Overland Park, Kans.: Prime Media Information Group.
Keyboard Magasine. San Mateo, Calif.
Offprints of articles in these journals that deal with computer-assisted music
copying, as well as information regarding the specific volumes that contain
them, can be provided by each publisher.

and

Pa r ts

19
S co rin g for B and
o r W ind E n s e m b l e

The band began mostly as an ensemble used outdoors and therefore needed
multiple instruments per part for carrying power. Advocates of these ensembles
have waxed eloquent about the virtues of the band sound; Frederick Fennell, for
one, has stated about twentieth-century wind playing in America: "The devel­
opment of wind playing has been one of this country's greatest contributions to
music performance. We have unleashed a force for music making unparalleled
in the whole history of musical art."* By wind playing, Fennell of course also in­
cludes woodwind and brass playing.
Many composers prefer the band sound per se; ten clarinets, for example, or
a multiple of any other band instrument on a single part certainly has a charac­
teristic sound. We saw that Mahler employed four unison flutes in his
Symphony No. 4 to simulate a band sound (Example 15-18). The out-of-tuneness of an instrumental section within a band adds character and even charm to
the sound.

S c o r in g fo r B a n d
There are similarities as well as differences in scoring for orchestra and for
band. The similarities are, of course, the techniques of performing on wood­
wind, brass, and percussion instruments, which are the same whether these
players are performing in an orchestra or in a band. It is true that most band
works routinely include significant parts for cornets, saxophones, and euphoni­
ums, but some contemporary orchestral works also employ these instruments,
though not often. In addition, balance within the ensemble as well as scoring the
foreground, middleground, and background are very much the same for both
ensembles.
The most important difference between scoring for the two media is that in
writing for band the composer or arranger never knows how many players will
be assigned to a given part. Most bands have a great many players on some
parts, such as the first flute or second clarinet.

‘ Frederick Fennell, The Wind Ensemble (Arkadelphia, Ark.: Delta Publications, 1988), p. 1.

772

S c o r in g

for

Band

or

W in d E n s e m b l e

Ba n d V e r s u s w in d E n s e m b l e
The world of "bandstration" was challenged in 1952 by Frederick Fennell, who
introduced a new concept the wind ensemble. Fennell advocated the idea of an
ensemble of winds, brass, and percussion, with scores stating a specific instru­
mentation and no doubling of parts—in other words, an orchestra-like ensem­
ble without strings. Every wind ensemble player would play a separate part
that would not be doubled by any other instrument.
During the last few decades we have seen the rise and development of the
wind ensemble. Fennell's Eastman Wind Ensemble and subsequently hundreds
of such groups throughout the world, including the now famous American
Wind Symphony of Pittsburgh, have performed works ranging from a few play­
ers in a Mozart wind serenade to recently composed pieces for wind ensem­
ble—some of them commissions by particular ensembles—employing a specific
number of performers called for by the composer. The American Wind
Symphony of Pittsburgh has consisted of a large symphonic wind section (four
flutes, four oboes, four clarinets, four bassoons, four horns, four trumpets, four
trombones, one tuba, and percussion; thus, 4, 4, 4, 4 / 4,4, 4,1 + perc.), which
usually does not include saxophones, euphoniums, or comets; but if these in­
struments are called for, the ensemble hires additional players.
Today, the composer or arranger can have it both ways. If a composer
wishes to write a work for band and accepts the doubling pervasive in this
medium, yet would like to have certain sections of the work sound cleaner and
more orchestra-like, he or she can specify that a single player perform a part by
placing the word solo at the required place in the score and the word tutti when
all players in the section resume playing. This frequently used technique makes
it easy to combine the traditional band concept with that of the wind ensemble.

T h e p e r c u s s io n S e c t io n w ith in
t h e B a n d o r W in d E n s e m b l e
The development of playing techniques within the orchestral percussion section
and the enormous growth in the numbers of different instruments used owe
much to the percussion section's popularity within the marching band, the con­
cert band, and the wind ensemble. The marching band's percussion section tra­
ditionally has led the entire ensemble and has been the most important element
in accomplishing the band's mission, whether it is to entertain the football
crowd at halftime or lead a parade. The percussion section within the concert
band or wind ensemble, on the other hand, assumes a similar role to the one it
occupies in the twentieth-century orchestra and is well integrated into the en­
semble. Usually this very large section includes many pitched percussion in­
struments (timpani, xylophone, marimba, vibraphone, crotales, roto toms, and
so on); except for the glockenspiel, none of these can be carried on a field or in a
parade. In addition, the percussion section may include the piano or celesta.
We encourage you to listen to some of the great marches written for band by
Sousa and others, as well as the works for band by Holst, Vaughan Williams,
Grainger, and others. Then listen to some of the works for band or wind

T he Stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

ensemble written more recently that are listed at the end of this chapter. The dif­
ferences between the two media will become instantly apparent; if you also fol­
low the score while listening, the characteristics that separate the sound of the
band from that of the wind ensemble will become even clearer.

T h e b a n d a n d W in d E n s e m b l e
Sco r e Setup
The basic instrumentation for some of the major bands is given in the following
setups; in those for the marching band and concert band each instrument that is
named may have from two to twenty players. Parts for band or wind ensemble
should be prepared in exactly the same ways as are proposed in Chapter 18 for
orchestra.
In some works for band or wind ensemble the piano, celesta, and harp may
be required. These instruments are placed in the score near the percussion in­
struments. On occasion these scores will also ask for double basses or even cel­
los, which add volume and smoothness to the bass of the ensemble; they are
placed below the tuba in a concert band or wind ensemble score (see Examples
17-15a and 17-18a).

Marching Band
С piccolo (the Dt piccolo is really not in use anymore)
Flutes (some may double on piccolo)
Bt clarinets (usually two parts)
Eb alto saxophone
Bb tenor saxophone
Et baritone saxophone
Bl>cornets (usually two parts)
Bl> trumpets (usually two parts)
Et or F horns
Baritones or euphoniums
Tubas or sousaphones

Standard Concert Band
Piccolo
Flutes (usually two parts)
Oboes (usually two parts which may include English horn)
El> clarinet
Bl. clarinet (usually three parts)
El>alto clarinet
Bb bass clarinet
(Bassoons)
Bl>soprano saxophone (used in some bands)

S c o r in g

for

Band

or

W in d E n s e m b l e

Et alto saxophone
Bl>tenor saxophone
Et baritone saxophone
Bk cornet (usually two or three parts)
Bl> trumpet (usually two or three parts)
F horns (usually four parts: sometimes Et horns are still available)
Trombones
Baritone or euphonium (sometimes two parts)
Tuba
Timpani
Percussion (usually four players)

Expanded Concert Band
Flute 1
Flute 2 (piccolo)
Oboe
Et clarinet
Solo clarinet and Clarinet 1
Clarinet 2
Clarinet 3
Alto clarinet
Bass clarinet
Bassoon
Alto saxophone 1
Alto saxophone 2
Tenor saxophone
Baritone saxophone
Trumpet 1 (Comet 1)
Trumpet 2 (Comet 2)
Trumpet 3 (Comet 3)
Fhom 1
F horn 2
Trombone 1
Trombone 2
Trombone 3
Baritone (T.C.)*
Baritone (B.C.)f
Basses (tubas)
Double bass
Timpani
Percussion 1: glockenspiel, xylophone, vibraphone, marimba
Percussion 2: wood block, temple blocks, cymbal in hand, suspended cym­
bal, triangle, snare drum, tenor drum, tam-tam, bass drum

'treble def
*bass clef

776

T he S tudy

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Wind Ensemble
The instrumentation of the wind ensemble (one instrument to a part and every
instrument specified) is entirely left to the composer or arranger, therefore it
would be futile to dictate the exact ensemble here. However, we will give one
representative example from the author's compositional output:
С piccolo 1 and 2
2 Flutes 1
2 Flutes 2
Oboe 1 and 2
English horn
Bassoon 1 and 2
Contrabassoon
El>clarinet
4 B!>clarinets 1
4 Bt clarinets 2
2 El>alto clarinets
2 Bb bass clarinets
Bl. contrabass clarinet
El. alto saxophone
Bb tenor saxophone
El>baritone saxophone
2 Bk cornets
2 Bt trumpet 1
2 Bt trumpet 2
2 Bb trumpet 3
F horn 1
F horn 2
F horn 3
F horn 4
3 Trombones 1 and 2
3 Bass trombones 3 and 4
Baritone 1 and 2 (T.C.)
Baritone 1 and 2 (B.C.); euphonium
2 Tubas (bass)
Double bass
Timpani
2 Percussion 1
2 Percussion 2
Here is a typical layout for a large concert band:

e x a m p l e i э -1 . Score Layout for Concert Band

T h e Stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

C o n d en sed S c o r es
In the band world condensed scores are a tradition. Many band conductors pre­
fer such a score to a full score. This custom, however, is becoming less promi­
nent today, since very sophisticated works for band and wind ensemble do not
lend themselves well to this type of compression. Neither does the version of
"America the Beautiful" that is given below. Yet, even today some publishers
insist that the composer or arranger furnish a condensed score.
Here are two layouts for condensed scores; the first is typical.

Bagley, National Emblem
This condensed score is of a famous march. In fact, most such marches are pub­
lished only as condensed rather than as full scores. The first line contains the
music for flutes, oboes, clarinets, alto saxophones, trumpets, and horns; the sec­
ond line the music for bassoons, bass clarinets, tenor and baritone saxophones,
trombones, euphoniums, and tubas. The word reeds on these two lines should
not be taken literally; it is used as a substitute for the word woodwinds in these
band scores. If a solo occurs in a march, the instrument or instruments that play
the solo are clearly labeled, but in tutti passages the generic terms for each in­
strumental group are used. The percussion section is usually so very important
in the performance of such a march that much more specific information about
it is given in the condensed score.
exam ple

1 9-г. E. E. Bagley, National Emblem, edited by Frederick Fennell

a. M M . 1-9
Bright March tempo
1

High Reeds 8va; Brass loco

780

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Ward, "America, the Beautiful"
In this more colorful work for band, specific instruments are given in the con­
densed score. As you can see, so much information has been included in the lay­
out of this score that a full score could be easily created from it.
example 1 9-3 . Samuel A. Ward, "America the Beautiful," arranged for band
by Carmen Dragon

a. мм. 1-6

S c o r in g

for

b. м м . 5 1 -5 3

ff

Ba n d

o r

W in d E n s e m b l e

781

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

T r a n s c r ib in g fr o m O r c h e s t r a
t o B a n d o r W in d E n s e m b l e

Simulating String Techniques on Band Instruments
In transcribing orchestral works for any band medium, transcribing idiomatic
string techniques for band instruments can be a challenge. You must first iden­
tify the band instrument that is most readily able to perform the desired string
effect. For instance, when strings are asked to play two pitches in a pianissimo
tremolo, it is best to use a woodwind instrument such as the flute or clarinet, de­
pending on the register in which the tremolo needs to be played. In certain reg­
isters the saxophones, or even the horns, might be more effective.
A more difficult simulation would be the string tremolo on one note.
Writing a wind or brass flutter tonguing is probably not the right answer, since
the technique may be too radical in most styles. A more reasonable solution
may be to write the tremolo for a xylophone or a piano, either of which can play
a tremolo on a single note.
Pizzicato is another favorite string sound that has no counterpart in the
band. For such a unique sound you need to look at the nature and purpose of
the pizzicato effect: to produce a short, dry stroke with little reverberation.
Certainly this can be simulated by a combination of staccato brass or wind notes
doubled at pitch by a xylophone or marimba. Another method would be to use
a wind or brass instrument and add piano or harp at pitch to provide the ping.
Which instrument to use will depend on the range and the dynamic level—and,
of course, the taste of the arranger.
Other idiomatic string sounds are more problematic. For instance, for sul
tasto, sul ponticello, and col legno, try to hear the sound in your mind and choose
an instrumental combination in the band that would most closely resemble the
sound of this effect. Sometimes it is better to forget about making a literal tran­
scription and to come up with a satisfactory alternative solution that would pre­
sent the original idea in possibly a new and very creative incarnation.
The one string quality always missed in band transcriptions is the smooth­
ness and power of the cello-double bass combination. Neither the tuba, trom­
bone, bass clarinet, bassoon, nor the low saxophones can approximate that
specific sound. Here again it is best to use the available bass instruments cre­
atively, remembering that the ensembles are different and comparisons can be
counterproductive. Often, low strings are added to a band scoring, but it is
much better simply to love the sound of the bass instruments in the band or
wind ensemble.

Two Representative Examples
In Chapter 17 we considered two works that were written for both band and or­
chestra by the same composer: Milhaud's Suite franqaise (Examples 17-15 to
17-17) and Schoenberg's Theme and Variations, Op. 43a and b (Examples 17-18 to
17-20). The two versions of both works were written practically simultaneously,
and therefore we can legitimately pose the question here of how the composer

S c o r in g

for

ban d

o r

W in d

rewrote a particular orchestral passage for band. We will study some of the
interesting peculiarities of both versions.
In the Milhaud scores (Example 17-16a and b), it is interesting that the pizzi­
cato string bass in the band version appears as an arco passage in the orchestral
version. Obviously the composer had a secco effect in mind, which in the latter
version is actually given by the two trombones, which play staccato eighth
notes in measures 1 and 5, a technique that allows the orchestral string section
to concentrate on providing a unified sound.
In comparing Examples 17-19a and b, we can see how Schoenberg has cre­
ated a more colorful score for band. The triplet figure, which in the orchestral
version is played almost exclusively by the strings (the clarinets in measure 24),
is given to a wide variety of instruments in the band version. Examine carefully
the longer excerpt in Examples 17-20a and b, especially for those instances
where Schoenberg simply transfers band color to the orchestra (or vice versa),
as in measures 106-113, where the flute plays the melody in both versions, and
in measures 125-128, where the clarinets are assigned the same parts. In mea­
sures 113-120 of this example the quiet orchestration of the violas in combina­
tion with muted Trumpets 1 and 2 becomes more colorful in the band version
through the use of a muted comet and baritone in combination with the two
muted trumpets. And starting in measure 114, the high solo double bass parts of
the orchestral version are assigned to a variety of colorful instruments, at vari­
ous times the tenor, alto, and baritone saxophones, bassoon, bass clarinet, and
tuba. All these factors show that transcribing from one medium to another chal­
lenges the composer's imagination and knowledge of color, registral character­
istics, and dynamic possibilities to balance each ensemble in the most effective
and creative manner.
[

A D D I T I O N A L W O R K S F O R B A N D O R W IN D E N S E M B L E

We recommend that you study the scores of many of the works for band or wind
ensemble from among the following; doing so will enable you to better deter­
mine the differences in the treatment of the instruments within a wind ensemble
setting from that within an orchestral setting.
S. Adler, Symphony No. 3
W. Benson, The Solitary Dancer
H. Brant, Angels and Devils
Copland, Emblems
M. Colgrass, Wind of Nagual
I. Dahl, Sinfonietta
V. Giannini, Symphony
M. Gould, Symphony No. 4 (Wesf Point)
Hanson, Chorale and Alleluia
Hindemith, Symphony for band
R. Kurka, The Good Soldier Schweik Suite
F. McBeth, Kaddish
P. Mennin, Canto
D. Maslanka, A Child's Garden of Dreams
R. Nelson, Aspen Jubilee
Persichetti, Symphony No. 6
Piston, Tunbridge Fair
H. O. Reed, La Fiesta Mexicana

en s em b le

T h e Stu d y

o f

O r c h e s t r a t io n

J. Schwantner," . . . and the mountains rising nowhere. . . "
J. Stamp, Divertimento in F
Stravinsky, Symphonies of Wind Instruments
F. Ticheli, Amazing Grace
J. Tower, Stepping Stone, "Celebration Fanfare"
F. Tull, Sketches on a Tudor Psalm-, Variants on an Advent Theme
R. Washburn, Symphony for band
D. Wilson, Piece of Mind

A P P E N D IC E S

A
Q uick R e f e r e n c e G u id es

m o s t

F r e q u e n t l y u s e d O r c h e s t r a l In s t r u m e n t s

Written Range
(Nonprofessional)*

Comments

Strings

Violin

as written

Viola

as written

Cello

as written

Double bass

octave lower

Harp (with
pedals up)

as written

‘ Whole notes indicate the range for beginning orchestral players, black noteheads for those playing in amateur groups,
tin all the diagrams that indicate professional written ranges, black noteheads indicate notes not found on every instrument.

O r c h e s t r a t io n

Sounding Range

of

Written Range
(Professional)

study

Instrument

the

On many instruments the uppermost note of the range will vary from professional player to professional player. The ones given here are
playable by all professionals and are those usually called for in orchestral playing.

786

Ra n g es o f th e

Instrument

Written Range
(Professional)

Sounding Range

Guitar

octave lower

Mandolin

as written

Banjo

as written, but tenor
banjo sounds octave lower

Written Range
(Nonprofessional)

Comments

Woodwinds

Piccolo

octave higher

Flute

as written

Alto flute

perfect 4th lower

Usually not available in
nonprofessional groups

>
n

TJ
PI

2
D

Oboe

A p p e n d ix

N a m e s o f I n s t r u m e n t s in F o u r L a n g u a g e s a n d
T h e ir E n g l is h A b b r e v ia t io n s

English

Italian

French

German

Strings

Archi

Cordes

Streichinstrumente

Violin (Vln.)
Viola (Via.)
Violoncello (Vic.)
Double bass (D.B.)
Harp (Hp.)

Violino
Viola
Violoncello
Contrabasso
Arpa

Violon
Alto
Violoncelle
Contrebasse
Harpe

Violine or Geige
Bratsche
Violoncell
Kontrabass
Harfe

Woodwinds

Legni (or Fiati) Bois

Holzblaser

Piccolo (Picc.)

Petite flfite

Kleine Flote or Pickelflote

Fldte
Hautbois
Cor anglais
Qarinette
Clarinette basse

Flote
Oboe or Hoboe
Englisches Horn
Marinette
Bassklarinette

Bassoon (Bsn.)
Contrabassoon (Cbsn.)
Saxophone (Sax.)

Ottavino or Flauto
piccolo
Flauto
Oboe
Como inglese
Clarinetto
Clarone or
Clarinetto basso
Fagotto
Contrafagotto
Sassofono

Basson
Contrebasson
Saxophone

Fagott
Kontrafagott
Saxophon

Brass(es)

Ottoni

Cuivres

Blechinstrumente

Horn (Hn.)
Trumpet (Tpt.)
Trombone (Trb.)
Tuba (Tba.)

Corno
Tromba
Trombone
Tuba

Cor
Trompette
Trombone
Tuba

Horn
Trompete
Posaune
Tuba

Percussion

Percussione

Batterie

Schlagzeug

Piano (Pno.)
Celesta (Cel.)
Harpsichord (Hpschd.)
Organ (Org.)
Harmonium (Harm.)

Pianoforte
Celesta or Celeste
Cemballo
Organo
Organetto

Piano
Celeste
Clavedn
Orgue
Harmonium

Klavier
Celesta
Cembalo
Orgel
Harmonium

Flute (FI.)
Oboe (Ob.)
English horn (Eng. Hn.)
Clarinet (Cl.)
Bass clarinet (Bs. Cl.)

a

793

794

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

English

Italian

French

German

Xylophone or
Oaquebois
Marimba
Vibraphone
Jeu de timbres
or Carillon
Jeu des cloches

Xylophon or
Holzharmonika
Marimbaphon
Vibraphon
Glockenspiel or Stahlspiel

Instruments of Definite Pitch
Idiophones

Crotales (Crot.)

Xilofono or
Silofono
Marimba
Vibrafono
Campanelli or
Campanette
Campane or
Capane tubolari
Crotali

Musical saw (Saw)
Hexatone (Flex.)

Sega cantante
Flessatono

Crotales or
Cymbales
antiques
Lame musicale
Flexatone

Timpani
Roto-Tom-Tom

Timbales
Roto-Tom

Pauken
Tom-Tom-Spiel

Cymbales
Cymbale
suspendue
Cymbale sur
tiges
Cymbales
digitales
Triangle

Becken or Tellem
Hangendes Becken

Xylophone (Xyl.)
Marimba (Mar.)
Vibraphone (Vib.)
Glockenspiel or
Orchestral bells (Glsp.)
Tubular Chimes (Chm.)

Rohrenglocken or
Glocken
Zimbeln

Singende Sage
Flexaton

Membranophones
Timpani (Timp.)
Roto Tom (R. Tom)

Instruments of Indefinite Pitch
Metal Idiophones
Crash cymbals (Cymb.)
Suspended cymbal
(Susp. Cymb.)
Sizzle cymbal (Sizzle
Cymb.)
Finger cymbals (Fing.
Cymb.)
Triangle (Trgl.)

Piatti or Cinelli
Piatto sospeso
Piatto chiodat
Cimbalini

Anvil (Anv.)
Cowbell (Cowb.)

Triangolo or
Acciarino
Incudine
Cencerro

Tam-tam (Tam-Tam)
Gong (Gong)
Metal wind chimes
(Metal W. Ch.)

Tamtam
Gong
Bacchette di
metallo sospese

Wooden wind chimes
(Wooden W. Ch.)
Bamboo wind chimes
(Bamboo W. Ch.)

Bacchette di legno
sospese
Tubi di bambu

Enclume
Sonnailles or
Cloches a vache
Tam-tam
Gong
Baguettes
metalliques
suspendues
Baguettes de
bois suspendues
Bambou
suspendu

Nietenbecken
Fingerzimbeln
Triangel
Amboss
Kuhglocken or
Kuhschellen
Tamtam
Gong
Metall-Windglocken

Holz-Windglocken
Bambusrohre

A p p e n d ix a

English

Italian

French

German

Glass wind chimes
(Glass W. Ch.)

Bacchette di vetro
sospese

Glas-Windglocken
Baguettes de
verre suspendues

Blocci de legno
cinese or Cassetina
Blocci de legno
coreano
Claves
Castagnette or
Nacchere
Carta vetrata

Blocs de bois

Holzblocke

Temple-blocs

Tempel-Blocke

Qaves
Casta gnettes

Qaves or Holzstab
Kastagnetten

Papier de verre

Sandpapier or
Sandblocke
Ratsche
Peitsche

Wooden Idiophones
Wood blocks (W. Bl.)
Temple blocks (T. Bl.)
Claves (Claves)
Castanets (Cast.)
Sandpaper blocks
(Sand Bl.)
Ratchet (Ratch.)
Slapstick or Whip
(Slapstick)

Raganella
Frusta

Crecelle
Fouet

Tamburo piccolo
or Tamburo
militare
(colie corde)
(senza le corde)
Cassa rullante

Caisse claire or
Tambour
militaire
(avec timbres)
(sans timbres)
Caisse roulante

Membranophones
Snare drum (S. Dr.)

(with snares on)
(with snares off)
Tenor drum (Ten. Dr.)
Bass drum (Bs. Dr.)

Gran cassa or Gran
tamburo
(upright)
(verticale)
(on side)
(orizzontale)
Tom-Toms (Tom-Toms) Tom-tom
Timbales (Timb.)
Timpanetti
Bongos (Bong.)
Conga drum (Conga)
Tambourine (Tamb.)

Bongos or Bonghi
Tumba
Tamburo basco or
Tamburino

Grosse caisse
(verticale)
(a plat)
Tom-tom
Timbales
cubaines
Bongos
Conga
Tambour de
basque

Kleine Trommel

(mit Schnarrsaite)
(ohne Schnarrsaite)
Wirbeltrommel or
Riihrtrommel
Grosse Trommel
(aufrecht)
Giegend)
Tom-Tom
Kuba-Pauken
Bongos
Conga-Trommel or Tumba
Tamburin or
Schellentrommel

Fr eq uen tly used O rch estr al
T e r m s in F o u r L a n g u a g e s

English

Italian

French

German

Muted

Con sordino
Con sordini

Sourdine(s)

mit Dampfer (or
Gedampft, in horns)

795

796

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

English

Italian

French

German

Take off mutes

Via sordini

Dampfer(n) weg

Without mute
In unison
Solo
All
1. (first only), 2.
a2

Senza sordino
Unisono (unis.)
Solo
Tutti
1°, 2°
a2

Enlevez les
sourdines
Sans sourdine
Unis
Seul
Tous
ler, 2e
к2

Corda
Leggio
Divisi (div.)
div. a 3
div. a 4
la meta
Sul ponticello
Sul tasto or Sulla
tastiera
With the wood of the bow Col legno
At the point of the bow
Punta d'arco
At the frog
al tallone
In the ordinary way or
Modo ordinario
Natural (after sul pont.,
sul tasto, etc.)
Near the sounding
board (harp)

Corde
Pupitre
Divise(e)s (div.)
div. a 3
div. a 4
la moitie
Sur le chevalet
Sur la touche

Saite
Pult
Geteilt (get.)
Dreifach
Vierfach
die Halfte
am Steg
am Griffbrett

Avec le bois
(de la) pointe
au talon
Mode ordinaire

Col legno or mit Holz
Spitze
am Frosch
Gewohnlich

Change to piccolo

Muta in piccolo

Piccolo nehmen

Change С to E (winds
and timpani)

Sol muta in mi

Changez en
petite flute
Changez do
en mi

Stopped (horns)
Brassy
Open
Bells in the air

Chiuso (Chiusi)

Bouche(s)
Cuivre
Ouvert(s)
Pavilions en
l'air

Gestopft
Schmetternd
Offen
Schalltrichter auf or
Schalltrichter hoch

String
Desk or Stand
Divided
Divided in 3 parts
Divided in 4 parts
Half (a string group)
At (near) the bridge
Over the fingerboard

With soft stick

With hard sticks

Aperto (Aperti)
Campane in aria
Bacchetta di
spugna

Ohne Dampfer
Zusammen
Allein
Alle
I 3** (or einfach), 2te
zu 2

Ргёэ de la table

С nach E umstimmen

Baguette
mit Schwammschlegel
d'eponge
(Baguette molle)
Bacchette di legno Baguettes en bois mit Holzschlegeln

в
S e l e c t B ib lio g r a p h y
by

Sam uel A dler

and

R o b e r t G ib s o n

O r c h e s tr a tio n
Anderson, Arthur O. Practical Orchestration. Boston, New York: С. C. Birchard,
1924.
Bennett, Robert Russell. Instrumentally Speaking. Melville, N.Y.: Belwin Mills,
1975.
Berlioz, Hector. Treatise on Instrumentation. Enlarged and ed. Richard Strauss.
Trans. Theodore Front. New York Kalmus, 1948.
This important historical document stems from two of the finest orchestrators; Richard
Strauss's revisions and additions to Berlioz's original text are clearly marked. The treatise
contains valuable information and orchestrational ideas that are still valid today.

Black, Dave, and Tom Gerou. Essential Dictionary of Orchestration. Los Angeles:
Alfred Music Publishing Co., 1998.
This quick reference guide gives the ranges, general characteristics, and scoring tips for all in­
struments.

Blatter, Alfred. Instrumentation/Orchestration. 2d ed. New York: Macmillan, 1997.
Burton, Stephen. Orchestration. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1982.
Casella, Alfredo. La Tecnica dell'orchestra contemporanea. Milan: Ricordi, 1959.
One of the finest sources of information about twentieth-century orchestration by one of the
leading Italian composers. This book has never been translated into English.

Del Mar, Norman. The Anchor Companion to the Orchestra. London, New York:
Faber and Faber, 1987.
A comprehensive guide to the instruments of the orchestra as well as to the works in which a
particular instrument is prominent.

Erpf, Herrmann. Lehrbuch der Instrumentation. Mainz: B. Schott's Sohne, 1959.
Forsyth, Cedi. Orchestration. Reprint of the second edition (1935). New York:
Dover, 1982.
A delightful book full of information on all the orchestral instruments as well as on many less
frequently used instruments, including those found in British brass bands.

Gevaert, Francois A. Nouveau traite d'instrumentation. Paris: Lemaine, 1885.
---------. Corns methodique d’orchestration. Paris: Lemaine, 1890.
The two Gevaert books, the French successors to Berlioz's treatise, are found only in French.

797

798

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Humperdinck, Engelbert. Instrumentationlehre. Koln: Verlag der Arbeitegemeinschaft fur rheinische Musikgeschichte, 1981.
Isaac, Merle. Practical Orchestration (for schools). New York: Robbins Music,
1963.
Jacob, Gordon. The Elements of Ochestration. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press,
1976.
--------- . Orchestral Technique. 3rd ed. London: Oxford University Press, 1982.
Both of the Jacob volumes discuss playing techniques for all the instruments and offer helpful
suggestions for employing them in orchestrations. Orchestral Technique also contains valu­
able examples of keyboard works transcribed for other instruments.

Kennan, Kent W., and Donald Grantham. The Technique of Orchestration. 5th ed.
Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1997.
This text includes a compact disc of selected excerpts in the book.

Kling, Henri. The Art of Instrumentation. New York: Carl Fischer, 1905.
Koechlin, Charles. Traite de I orchestration. 4 vols. Paris: Max Eschig, 1954-1959.
Kohs, Ellis B. An Aural Approach to Orchestration. Published by and available
from the author.
Kruckenberg, Sven. The Symphony Orchestra and Its Instruments. Twickenham,
England: Tiger Books International, 1997.
A beautifully illustrated, large-format book that provides information on the growth of the
modem symphony orchestra, and its instruments, literature, and techniques.

Kunitz, Hans. Die Instrumentation. 13 vols. Leipzig: Breitkopf und Hartel,
1956-1961.
This series, which devotes an entire volume to each important orchestral instrument, exists
only in German. Each volume gives specialized information on each instrument and detailed
charts on a variety o f playing techniques associated with that instrument. Copious music ex­
amples o f all possible trills and tremolos for the wind instruments are included.

Leibowitz, Rene, and Jan Maguire. Thinking for Orchestra. New York: Schirmer
Books, 1960.
McKay, George F. Creative Orchestration. Boston: Allyn & Bacon, 1963.
Piston, Walter. Orchestration. New York: W. W. Norton, 1955.
Read, Gardner. Thesaurus of Orchestral Devices. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood
Press, 1969.
---------. Contemporary Instrumental Technique. New York: Schirmer Books, 1976.
--------- . Style and Orchestration. New York: Schirmer Books, 1979.
The three Read books are references to orchestral techniques and devices. They are full of ex­
amples of contemporary techniques—always giving the pieces in which these techniques may
be found—as well as discussions of some neglected aspects of orchestration found in scores
from the common practice period to the present.

Rimsky-Korsakov, Nikolai. Principles of Orchestration. Trans. Edward Agate.
New York: Dover, 1953.
This book is of historical as well as practical interest. All the examples are from RimskyKorsakov's own works.

A p p e n d ix

Rogers, Bernard. The Art of Orchestration. New York: Appleton-Century-Croft,
1951.
This book contains tremendous insights into orchestrational techniques.

Wagner, Joseph F. Orchestration. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1959.
Wellesz, Egon. Die neue Instrumentation. Berlin: Max Hesse Handbucher, 1928.
Widor, Charles M. The Technique of the Modem Orchestra. London: J. Williams,
1906.

In d i v i d u a l i n s t r u m e n t a l T e c h n i q u e
This section lists books on the techniques of individual instruments. Many of
these volumes are devoted to twentieth-century techniques, which extend the
original boundaries of the traditional techniques.

Strings
The V iolin Family
Bachman, Alberto. An Encyclopedia of the Violin. Trans. F. H. Martens. New York:
Da Capo Press, 1976.
Galamian, Ivan. Principles of Violin Playing and Teaching. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.:
Prentice-Hall, 1963.
This book contains detailed information about bowings and string techniques, giving a violin­
ist's perspective on violin playing and teaching.

Green, Elizabeth A. H. Orchestral Boxvings and Routines. 2d ed. Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Ann Arbor Publishers, 1957.
A manttal detailing how to apply the basic principles of orchestral bowing to specific examples
from the literature.

Nelson, Sheila M. The Violin and Viola. New York: W. W. Norton, 1972.
Seagrave, Barbara Garvey, and Joel Berman. The American String Teachers
Dictionary of Bowing Terms for String Instruments. Urbana, 111.: American
String Teachers Association, 1968.
A comprehensive source of information about bowing terms (including all foreign terms).
Each entry lists the common modem usage first, followed by historical or special meanings.

Turetzky, Bertram. The Contemporary Contrabass. Berkeley: University of Cali­
fornia Press, 1974.
An invaluable guide to new sound possibilities on the double bass.

Yampolsky, I. M. Principles of Violin Fingering. Trans. Alan Lumsden. New York:
Oxford University Press, 1967.
Zukovsky, Paul. "On Violin Harmonics," Perspectives of New Music (Spring/
Summer 1968): 174-81.
A well-known performer presents useful information and recommendations about contempo­
rary notation and the performance of violin harmonics. This article also appears in

в

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Perspectives on Notation and Performance, ed. Benjamin Boretz and Edward T. Cone
(New York W. W. Norton, 1976).

Other Strings
Quine, Hector. Guitar Technique. London: Oxford University Press, 1990.
Salzedo, Carlos. Modem Study for the Harp. New York: G. Schirmer, 1948.
The composer gives the symbols for and explanations of the new effects that he created.

Sparks, Paul. The Classical Mandolin. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995.
This book explores the techniques and literature for the mandolin from the Classical period to
the present.

Stahl, William C. Stahl's New Mandolin Method. Milwaukee: J. Flaimer, 1900.

Woodwinds
Bartolozzi, Bruno. New Sounds for Woodzvinds. Trans. Reginald Smith Brindle.
London: Oxford University Press, 1967.
This book discusses monophonic and multiphonic possibilities for individual woodwind in­
struments. The fingerings suggested in the book to produce these effects are easier to use on
European-built instruments than on American-built ones. Includes sound recording of these
techniques.

Biggers, C. A. The Contrabassoon: A Guide to Performance. Bryn Mawr, Pa.: Elkan
Vogel, 1977.
Cooper, L. H., and H. Toplansky. Essentials of Bassoon Technique. Union, N.J.:
Toplansky, 1968.
Dick, Robert. The Other Flute. New York: Oxford University Press. 1975.
Dorn, Ken. Saxophone Techniques. Vol. I: Multiphonics. Islington, Mass.: Dorn
Publications, 1975.
Heiss, John C. 'Tor the Flute: A List of Double-Stops, Triple-Stops, QuadrupleStops, and Shakes." Perspectives of New Music (Fall/Winter 1966): 139-42.
---------. "Some Multiple-Sonorities for the Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, and Bassoon."
Perspectives of New Music (Fall/Winter 1968): 136-42.
---------. "The Flute: New Sounds," Perspectives of New Music (Summer 1972):
153-58.
Three articles from the journal Perspectives of New Music by a composer-flutist who has
great insights into the new techniques on woodwind instruments. The last contains detailed
information on multiphonics and extended playing techniques.

Howell, Thomas S. The Avant-Garde Flute: A Handbook for Composers and Flutists.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1974.
This book presents useful information about harmonics, quarter-tone fingerings, and special
effects, and catalogues the multiphonic possibilities for the flute according to the degree of
their reliability of performance by most flutists.

Kroll, Oskar. The Clarinet. Trans. Hilda Morris. New York: Taplinger, 1968.
Originally published as Die Klarinette: ihre Geschichte, ihre Literatur, ihre grossen
Meister (Kassel: Barenreiter-Verlag, 1965).

A P P E N D IX В

Langwill, Lyndesay Graham. The Bassoon and Contrabassoon. New York: W. W.
Norton, 1965.
Pellerite, James J. A Modem Guide to Fingerings for the Flute. 2d ed. Bloomington,
Ind.: Zalo Publications, 1972.
Putnik, Edwin. The Art of Flute Playing. Evanston, 111.: Summy Birchard, 1970.
Rascher, Sigurd M. Top-Tones for the Saxophone. Boston: Carl Fischer, 1941.
Rehfeld, P. New Directions for the Clarinet. Berkeley: University of California
Press, 1978.
Spenser, W. G. The Art of Bassoon Playing. Evanston, 111.: Summy Birchard, 1958.
Sprenkle, Robert, and D. Ledet. The Art of Oboe Playing. Evanston, 111.: Summy
Birchard, 1961.
Stein, Keith. The Art of Clarinet Playing. Evanston, Ш.: Summy Birchard, 1958.
Teal, Larry. The Art of Saxophone Playing. Evanston, П1.: Summy Birchard, 1963.
Toff, Nancy. The Flute Book. New York- Oxford University Press 1996.
A basic book for the flutist as well as the orchestrator.

Tose, G. Artistic Clarinet Technique and Study. Hollywood: Highland Music, 1962.
Weisberg, Arthur. The Art of Woodwind Playing. New York: Schirmer Books,
1975.

Brass
Baines, Anthony. Brass Instruments: Their History and Development. London:
Faber and Faber, 1976; reprinted with corrections in 1978 and 1980. New
York: Dover, 1993.
Bevan, Clifford. The Tuba Family. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1978.
Farkas, Philip. The Art of French Horn Playing. Evanston, П1.: Summy Birchard,
1956.
Franz, Oscar. Complete Method for the Horn. New York: Carl Fischer, 1906.
Herbert, Trevor, and John Wallace, eds. The Cambridge Companion to Brass
Instruments. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1997.
Morley-Pegge, R. The French Horn. New York: W. W. Norton, 1973.
Schuller, Gunther. Horn Technique. London: Oxford University Press, 1962.
The noted composer and horn player has included a chapter that clarifies a number of com­
monly held misconceptions about writing for the horn.

Wick, Dennis. Trombone Technique. New York: Oxford University Press, 1984.

Percussion and Keyboard
Blades, James. Orchestral Percussion Technique. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1973.
Davis, Roger. The Organists' Manual. New York: W. W. Norton, 1985.

801

802

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Peinkofer, Karl, and Fritz Tannigel. Handbook of Percussion Instruments. Trans. K.
and E. Stone. Mainz: B. Schott's Sohne, 1976.
Ramada, Manel. Atlas de los instruments de percusidn. Valencia, Spain: Rivera
Editores, 1999.
A concise dictionary, in Spanish, of about one thousand percussion instruments. Each entry
includes the instrument's name translated into several languages, including English; its sym­
bol; its classification (wood, metal, and so on); and its notation.

Reed, H. Owen, and Joel T. Leach. Scoring for Percussion. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.:
Prentice-Hall, 1969.
This book discusses the commonly used percussion instruments, more obscure instruments,
and special effects. Chapters on percussion notation are particularly useful.

Smith Brindle, Reginald. Contemporary Percussion. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1970.

T h e H is t o r y o f t h e O r c h e s t r a
O r c h e s t r a l In s t r u m e n t s

and o f

Baines, Anthony. Musical Instruments Through the Ages. Baltimore: Penguin
Books, 1961.
---------. Woodwind Instruments and Their History. London: Faber and Faber, 1967.
Barnes, William H. The Contemporary American Organ. New York: J. Fischer,
1952.
Bate, Philip. The Flute: An Outline of Its History, Development and Construction.
New York: W. W. Norton, 1975.
--------- . The Oboe: An Outline of Its History, Development and Construction. 3rd ed.
New York: W. W. Norton, 1975.
---------. The Trumpet and Trombone: An Outline of Their History, Development, and
Construction. 2d ed. New York: W. W. Norton, 1978.
Becker, Hans. History of Instrumentation. Cologne: Arno Verlag, 1964.
Bekker, Paul. The Orchestra. New York: W. W. Norton, 1963.
Bellow, A. The Illustrated History of the Guitar. New York: Colombo, 1970.
Belt, Phillip, et al. The Piano. New York: W. W. Norton, 1988.
Bevan, Clifford. The Tuba Family. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1978.
Blades, James. Percussion Instruments and Their History. London: Faber, 1975.
Brymer, Jack. The Clarinet. New York: Schirmer Books, 1976.
Carse, Adam. History of Orchestration. New York: Dover Publications, 1964.
---------. The Orchestra from Beethoven to Berlioz. Cambridge: W. Heffer & Sons,
Ltd., 1948.
---------. The Orchestra in the XVUIth Century. Cambridge: W. Heffer & Sons, Ltd.,
1940.
---------. Musical Wind Instruments. New York: Da Capo Press, 1966.

A p p e n d ix

Coeme, Louis A. The Evolution of Modem Orchestration. New York; Macmillan,
1908.
Cowling, Elizabeth. The Cello. New York: Charles Scribner^ Sons, 1975.
Geiringer, Karl. Musical Instruments. New York: Oxford University Press, 1945.
Goossens, Eugene, and Evelyn Rothwell. The Oboe. New York: Schirmer Books,
1977.
Gregory, Robin. The Horn. New York Praeger, 1969.
---------. The Trombone. New York: Praeger, 1973.
Kentner, Louis. Piano. New York: Schirmer Books, 1976.
Korn, Richard. Orchestral Accents. New York: Farrar, Strauss, and Cudahy, 1956.
Kroll, Oscar. The Clarinet. Trans. Hilda Morris. New York: Taplinger, 1968.
Langwill, Lindesay Graham. The Bassoon and the Contrabassoon. New York:
W. W. Norton, 1975.
Leipps, Emile. The Violin. Trans. H. W. Parry. Toronto: Toronto University
Press, 1969.
Menuhin, Yehudi, William Primrose, and D. Stevens. Violin and Viola. New
York: Schirmer Books, 1976.
Niland, Austin. Introduction to the Organ. London: Faber and Faber, 1968.
Owen, Barbara, and Peter Williams. The Organ. New York: W. W. Norton, 1988.
Peyser, Joan. The Orchestra: Origins and Transformations. New York: Charles
Scribner's Sons, 1986; paperback ed., New York: Billboard Books, 2000.
A wide-ranging collection of articles by noted contributors, which deal with the history of the
orchestra and issues related to orchestrating with various historical instruments.

Reusch, R. The Harp. New York: Praeger, 1969.
Sachs, Curt. The History of Musical Instruments. New York: W. W. Norton, 1940.
Sadie, Stanley, ed. The New Grove Dictionary of Musical Instruments. New York:
Grove's Dictionaries of Music, Inc., 1984.
Turnbull, H. The Guitar from the Renaissance to the Present Day. New York:
Charles Scribner's Sons, 1974.
Wheeler, Tom. The Guitar Book. New York: Harper and Row, 1974.

B a n d a n d W in d E n s e m b l e S c o r i n g ,
F il m s c o r i n g , a n d c o m m e r c i a l
A r r a n g in g
Baker, Mickey. Complete Handbook for the Music Arranger. New York: AMSCO
Press, 1970.
Cacavas, John. Music Arranging and Orchestration. Melville, N.Y.: Belwin Mills
Publishing Co., 1975.
Clappe, Arthur. Principles of Wind-Band Transcription. New York: Carl Fischer,
1921.

в

T he

s tu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Grove, Dick. Arranging Concepts. Studio City, Calif.: First Place Music
Publishers, 1972.
Hagen, Earle. Scoring for Film: A Complete Text. N.p: E. D. J. Music Inc. (part of
C. P. P. Belwin Music), 1971.
Lang, Philip. Scoring for Band. New York: Mills Music, 1950.
Mancini, Henry. Sounds and Scores: A Practical Guide to Professional Orchestration.
N.p.: Northridge Music Co. Inc., 1962. Distributed by Cherry Lane Music
Co.
This book discusses the instruments of the studio orchestra as well as arranging for studio or­
chestra, drawing examples from the author's motion picture, television, and commercial
recordings. A recording is included.

Prendergast. Roy. Film Music: A Neglected Art. 2d ed. New York: W. W. Norton,
1992.
Sebesky, Don. The Contemporary Arranger. Los Angeles: Alfred Music Co., 1975.
A recording is available.

Skinner, Frank. Underscore. Hollywood: Criterion Music, 1960.
Wagner, Joseph F. Band-Scoring. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Wright, D. Scoring for Brass Band. Colne, Lancs., England: J. Duckworth, 1935.

C o m pu ter

and

E l e c t r o n i c Mu s i c

Anderson, Craig. MIDI for Musicians. New York: AMSCO Press, 1986.
A guide to working with MIDI.

Cook, Perry R. An Introduction to Psychoacoustics. Cambridge, Mass.: The МГГ
Press, 1997.
An excellent text on how the brain processes and interprets sound. Includes units on cognitive
psychology, the physics of sound, and computerized sound generation.

Dodge, Charles, and Thomas Jerse. Computer Music: Synthesis, Composition, and
Performance. 2d ed. New York: Schirmer Books, 1997.
Provides an excellent introductory overview to the theory and practice of computer and elec­
tronic music techniques.

Manning, Paul. Electronic and Computer Music. London: Oxford University Press,
1994.
This invaluable book contains a thorough history of this genre as well as technical explana­
tions, a bibliography, and a discography.

Pellman, Samuel. An Introduction to the Creation of Electroacoustic Music. New
York: Wadsworth, 1994.
An accessible and thorough introductory text, especially well suited to those with little prior
background in this subject.

Roads, Curtis. The Computer Music Tutorial. Cambridge, Mass.: The МГГ Press,
1996.
A comprehensive and accessible introduction to the practice, history, and theory of computer
music techniques.

A P P E N D IX В

Roads, Curtis, and John Strawn. Foundations of Computer Music. Cambridge,
Mass.: The МГГ Press, 1985.
Rowe, Robert. Interactive Music Systems. Cambridge, Mass.: The МГГ Press, 1992.
Surveys graphical computer programs and systems that can analyze, compose, and participate
in music performance m real time.

Recommended Journals
Computer Music foumal. Cambridge, Mass.: The МГГ Press.
Electronic Musician. Berkeley, Calif.: Mix Publications.
Keyboard. Cupertino, Calif.: GPT Publications.
Leonardo Journal (МГГ Press Journals, Five Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Mass. 02142-1407) and the online Leonardo Electronic Almanac
(http:/ /mitpress.mit.edu/e-joumals/LEA/home.html).

Acknow ledgm ents

P h o to g ra ph s
p. 51 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 65 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 75 Courtesy of
Louis Ouzer; p. 83 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 89 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 101
Stan Jay/Mandolin Bros.; p. 104 Stan Jay/Mandolin Bros.; p. 106 Stan Jay/Mandolin
Bros.; p. 108 Used by the kind permission of James Jones-Musical Instruments:
www.jamesjonesinstruments.com; p. 180 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 194 Courtesy
of Louis Ouzer; p. 205 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 217 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer;
p. 221 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 302 Warder Collection; p. 308 Courtesy of Osmun
Music, Inc.; p. 309 Top and Middle: Courtesy of Osmun Music, Inc. Bottom: Used by
the kind permission of Johnson Cases, Inc.: www.johnsoncases.com; p. 310 Courtesy
of Osmun Music, Inc.; p. 312 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 325 Courtesy of Louis
Ouzer; p. 341 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 349 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer;
p. 432 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer; p. 436 Courtesy of Louis Ouzer

MUSIC

Belmont Music Publishers
Schoenberg, Brahms: Piano Concerto in g minor, Theme and Variations. Op. 43a
Used by permission of Belmont Music Publishers, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272
Schoenberg, Brahms: Piano Concerto in g minor, Theme and Variations, Op. 43b
Used by permission of Belmont Music Publishers, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272
Schoenberg, Erwartung
Used by permission of Belmont Music Publishers, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272

BOOSEY & HAWKES
Bartok, Concerto for Orchestra © Copyright 1946 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Bartok, Concerto for Piano, No. 3 © Copyright 1947 by Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Bartok, Concerto for Violin © Copyright 1946 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Bartok, Divertimento © Copyright 1940 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Bartok, Mikrokosmos (Volumes 1-6) © Copyright 1940 by Hawkes and Son (London)
Ltd, Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Bartok, Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta © Copyright 1937 for the U.S.A. by
Boosey & Hawkes, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of
Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
807

808

T he Stu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Bartok, String Quartet Number 4 © Copyright 1929 for the USA by Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission.
Bartok, String Quartet Number 5 © Copyright 1936 for the USA by Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission.
Bernstein, Fancy Free © Copyright 1950,1968 by Warner Bros. Inc. Copyright
Renewed. Leonard Bernstein Music Publishing Company LLC, Publisher.
Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Agent. Reprinted by permission.
Bernstein, On the Town © 1945,1968 by Warner Bros. Inc. Copyright Renewed.
Leonard Bernstein Music Publishing Company LLC, Publisher. Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc., Sole Agent. Reprinted by permission.
Britten, Four Sea Interludes © Copyright 1944 by Boosey and Hawkes Ltd. Copyright
Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Britten, Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings © Copyright 1940 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Britten, Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra © 1940 by Hawkes and Son (London)
Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Copland, Appalachian Spring © Copyright 1946 by The Aaron Copland Fund for
Music, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Publisher &
Licensee. Reprinted by permission.
Copland, Billy the Kid © Copyright 1946 by The Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc.
Copyright Renewed. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Publisher & Licensee.
Reprinted by permission.
Copland, Music for the Theatre © Copyright 1932 The Aaron Copland Fund for
Music, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Publisher &
Licensee. Reprinted by permission.
Copland, Outdoor Overture © Copyright 1948 by The Aaron Copland Fund for
Music, Inc. Copyright Renewed. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Publisher &
Licensee. Reprinted by permission.
Copland, Symphony No. 3 © Copyright 1947 by The Aaron Copland Fund for Music,
Inc. Copyright Renewed. Boosey & Hawkes, Inc., Sole Publisher & Licensee.
Reprinted by permission.
Elgar, Pomp and Circumstance, No. 1 © Copyright 1901 by Boosey & Co. Copyright
Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
B. Martinu, Symphony No. 1 © Copyright 1947 by Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Mussorgsky/Ravel, Pictures at an Exhibition © Copyright 1929 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. for all countries of the world. Propriete en co-edition editions A.
R. I. M. A. et Editions Boosey & Hawkes for the UK, British Commonwealth,
Eire, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the USA.
Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kije Suite © Copyright 1936 by Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Prokofiev, Classical Symphony © Copyright by Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Rachmaninoff, Symphonic Dances © Copyright 1941 by Boosey & Hawkes Music
Publishers Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Strauss, Ariadne Auf Naxos © 1912 by Adolph Furstner. U. S. Copyright Renewed.
Copyright assigned 1943 to Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd. (a Boosey & Hawkes
Company) for the world excluding Germany, Italy, Portugal and the former
Territories of the USSR (excluding Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania).
Strauss, Capriccio © Copyright 1942 by Richard Strauss. Copyright Renewed. Sole
agents for the world except Germany, Italy, Portugal and the former Territories of
the USSR (excluding Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania): Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd.
(a Boosey & Hawkes company) Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes,
Inc.

A c k n o w led g m en ts

Strauss, Der Rosenkavalier © Copyright 1910,1911 by Adolph Furstner. Copyright
Renewed. Copyright assigned 1943 to Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd. (a Boosey
& Hawkes Company) for the world excluding Germany, Italy, Portugal and the
former Territories of the USSR (excluding Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania).
Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Strauss, Ruhe, meine Seele, Op. 27, No. 1 Courtesy of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Strauss, Salome © Copyright 1905 by Adolph Furstner. Copyright Renewed.
Copyright assigned 1943 to Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd. (a Boosey & Hawkes
Company) for the world excluding Germany, Italy, Portugal and the former
Territories of the USSR (excluding Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania). Reprinted by
permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Strauss, Sinfonia domestica © Copyright 1904,1932 by Bote & Bock Musik- und
Buhnenverlag GMBH & Co., Berlin (a Boosey & Hawkes company). Reprinted
by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, J.S. Bach Choral Variations © Copyright 1956 by Hawkes & Son (London)
Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Movements for Piano and Orchestra © Copyright 1960 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Orpheus © Copyright 1948 by Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd. Copyright
Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Petrushka © Copyright 1912 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Revised version: © Copyright 1948 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Pulcinella Suite © Copyright 1925 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Revised version © Copyright 1966 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Le Sucre Du Printemps © Copyright 1912,1921 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Threni © Copyright 1958 by Boosey & Co. Copyright Renewed.
Reprinted by permission of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Symphony of Psalms © Copyright 1931 by Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd.
Copyright Renewed. Revised version: © Copyright 1948 by Hawkes & Son
(London) Ltd. Copyright Renewed. Reprinted by permission of Boosey &
Hawkes, Inc.
Stravinsky, Symphony in Three Movements Couretsy of Boosey & Hawkes, Inc.

Oxford University Press
Vaughan Williams, Symphony No. 6 in E minor © Oxford University Press 1948 Used
by permission. All rights reserved.
Walton, Belshazzar's Feast © Oxford University Press 1931. Renewed in USA
1959.Used by permission. All rights reserved.

C. F. Peters Corporation
Bassett, Variations © 1966 by C. F. Peters Corporation; Used by permission.
Benson, Symphony for Drums and Wind Orchestra © 1963 by Henmar Press, Inc.; Used
by permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.
Schoenberg, Five Pieces for Orchestra © 1952 by Henmar Press, Inc.; Used by
permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.

810

T H E S T U D Y O F O R C H E S T R A T IO N

Strauss, Don Juan Used by permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.
Strauss, Don Quixote Used by permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.
Strauss, Till Eulenspiegel Used by permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.
Strauss, Also Sprach Zarathustra Used by permission of C. F. Peters Corporation.

Tetra Music Corporation
Dahl, Sinfonietta © 1969 by Tetra Music Corporation с/о Plymouth Music, Inc. 170
N. E. 33rd St. P.O. Box 24330 Ft. Lauderdale, Fla 33307

Theodore Presser Co.
Milhaud, La Creation Du Monde © 1923 Editions Max Eschig. Used By Permission
Ravel, Bolero © 1929 Durand S. A. Used By Permission
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, Ballet © 1913 Durand, S. A. Used By Permission
Ravel, Daphnis et Chloe, Suite No. 1 © 1913 Durand, S. A. Used By Permission
Ravel, Ma Mere VOye © 1912 Durand, S. A. Used By Permission
Ravel, Pavane for a Dead Princess © 1910 Editions Max Eschig. Used By Permission
Ravel, Rapsodie Espagnle © 1908 Durand, S. A. Used By Permission
Ravel, La Valse © 1921 Durand, S. A. Used By Permission
Schuman, New England Triptych © 1957 Merion Music, Theodore Presser Company
sole representative. Used By Permission Of The Publisher
Stachowski, Irisation for Orchestra © Polski Wydawnictwo Muzyczne. Used by
permission.

Seesaw Music
Polin, The Death ofProcris from The Death of Procris by Claire Polin. Copyright 1974
by Seesaw Music Corp. New York. Reprinted by permission.

Shawnee Press
Stravinsky, Les Noces Copyright © for all countries 1922,1990. Chester Music, a
Division of Music Sales Ltd. 8/9 Frith Street, London W1V 5TZ

G. Schirmer/ Music Sales Corp./ Associated Music
Publishing
Barber, Essay for Orchestra, No. 1 Copyright © 1941 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. АД Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Barber, Symphony No. 1 Copyright © 1943 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by Permission
of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Bloch, Schelmo Copyright © 1918,1945 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by Permission
of G. Schirmer, Inc.

a c k n o w led g m en ts

Diamond, Fourth Symphony (Symphony No. 4) Copyright © 1949 (Renewed) by G.
Schinner, Inc. (ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved.
Reprinted by Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Elgar, Enigma Variations Copyright © by Novello & Co., Ltd. International
Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by permission of G.
Schinner, Inc., as agents of Novello & Co., Ltd.
Harris, Third Symphony (Symphony No. 3) Copyright © 1939 (Renewed) by
Associated Music Publishers, Inc. (BMI) International Copyright Secured.
All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by Permission of Associated Music
Publishers, Inc.
Holst, The Planets Copyright © 1921 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by Permission
of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Khachaturian, Sabre Dance (from Gayne Ballet) Copyright © 1954 (Renewed) by G.
Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved.
Reprinted by Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Piston, The Incredible Flutist Copyright © 1966 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Powell, Miniatures for Baroque Ensemble Copyright © 1961 (Renewed) by G.
Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved.
Reprinted by Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Prokofiev, Symphony No. 5 Copyright © 1947 (Renewed) G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by Permission
of G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
Ravel, Menuet Antique Copyright © by Enoch and CIE. International Copyright
Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by permission of G. Schirmer, Inc., as
agents for Enoch and CIE
Schuller, Concerto for Orchestra, No. 2 Copyright © 1987 by Associated Music
Publishers, Inc. (BMI) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved.
Reprinted by Permission of Associated Music Publishers, Inc.
Sessions, Symphony No. 2 Copyright © 1949 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 1 Copyright © 1927 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 5 Copyright © (1939) (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 6 Copyright © 1941 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Shostakovich, Symphony No. 8 Copyright © 1948 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer, Inc.
(ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by
Permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.
Stravinsky, Dumbarton Oaks Concerto Copyright © 1938 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer,
Inc. (ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted
by permission.
Stravinsky, L'Histoire du Soldat Copyright © 1924 (Renewed) J & W Chester Music
Ltd. international Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. All rights for the
U.S. and Canada controlled by G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP) Used by Permission
of G. Schirmer, Inc. (ASCAP)
1
Stravinsky, Tango (from A Soldier's tale) Copyright © 1924 (Renewed) by G. Schirmer,
Inc. (ASCAP) International Copyright Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted
by permission of G. Schirmer, Inc.

T h e Stu d y

o f o r c h e s t r a t io n

Weinberger, Polka and Fugue (From Schwanda and The Bagpiper) Copyright © 1930
(Renewed) by Associated Music Publishers, Inc (BMI) International Copyright
Secured. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted by permission of Associated Music
Publishers, Inc.

Warner Bros.
Berg, Lyric Suite © 1927 by Universal Edition; Copyright renewed; All Rights
Reserved; Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for Universal Edition.
Berg, Violin Concerto © 1936 by Universal Edition. Copyright renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for Universal Edition.
Berio, Circles © 1976 by Universal Edition (London) Ltd., London. Used by
permission of European American Music Distributors Corporation, sole U. S.
agent for Universal Edition.
Crumb, Echoes of Time and the River © 1968 Mills Music, Inc., a division of Filmtrax
Copyright Holdings, Inc. International Copyright Secured. Made in U. S. A. All
Rights Reserved.
Druckman, Windows © 1973 by MCA Music, a Division of MCA Inc., New York,
N. Y. Used by permission. All rights reserved.
Gershwin, Concerto in F © 1927 New World Music Corporation. Copyright
Renewed. All Rights Reserved. Used by permission of Warner Bros. Music.
Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue © 1924 WB Music Corp. Copyright Renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission.
Gershwin, Rhapsody in Blue (original version for the Whitman Band) © 1924 WB Music
Corp.; Copyright Renewed. All Rights Reserved. Used by permission.
Gould, Interplay © 1961 Mills Music, Inc., a division of Filmtrax Copyright
Holdings, Inc. International Copyright Secured. Made in the U. S. A. All Rights
Reserved.
Hindemith, Kleine Sornte © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1929. © renewed 1957. Used
by permission of European American Music Distributors Corporation, sole U.
S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Hindemith, Mathis der Maler © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1934. © renewed. All
Rights Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music
Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Hindemith, Nobilissima Visione © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1940; © renewed. All
Rights Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music
Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Hindemith, Der Schwanendreher © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1936. © renewed. All
Rights Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music
Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's
Sohne.
Hindemith, Sonata, Op. 11, No. 4 © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1921. © renewed by
Schott & Co., Ltd., London 1949.Used by permission of European American
Music Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's
Sohne.
Hindemith, Symphonic Metamorphoses © Associated Music Publishers Inc., New
York, 1945. © Assigned to B. Schott's Sohne, 1946. © renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Kodaly, Hary Janos © 1927 by Universal Edition. © assigned 1952 to Universal
Edition (London) Ltd., London. © renewed. Used by permission of European
American Music Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for
Universal Edition, London.

A c k n o w led g m en ts

Kodaly, Psalmus Hungaricus © 1926 by Universal Edition. © renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Kotonski, A Battere © Warner Bros. Music Corp. Copyright Renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission.
Mahler, Symphony No. 10 © Copyright by Universal Edition, A. G., Wien. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U.S. and Canadian agent for Universal Edition Vienna.
Milhaud, Suite Francaise © 1945,1946,1947 by MCA Music, A Division of MCA Inc.,
New York, N. Y. Used by permission. All rights reserved.
Orff, Carmina Burarn © B. Schott's Sohne, Mainz, 1937. © renewed. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for B. Schott's Sohne.
Penderecki, Dies Irae © 1967 by Moeck Verlag, All Rights Reserved. Used by
permission of European American Music Distributors Corporation, sole U. S.
and Canadian agent for Moeck Verlag.
Penderecki, Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima © by Moeck Verlag. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music Distributors
Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for Moeck Verlag.
Schuller, Seven Studies on Themes of Paul Klee © 1962 by Universal Edition London;
All Rights Reserved; Used by permission of European American Music
Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for Universal Edition
London.
Webern, Six Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6 © Copyright 1961 by Universal Edition, A. G.,
Wien. All Rights Reserved. Used by permission of European American Music
Distributors Corporation, sole U.S. and Canadian agent for Universal Edition
Vienna.
Webern, Symphony, Op. 21 © Copyright 1929 by Universal Edition. Copyright
renewed. All Rights Reserved. Used by permission of European American
Music Distributors Corporation, sole U. S. and Canadian agent for Universal
Edition.

In d e x

Page numbers in italics indicate illustrations.
absolute pitch, 639
accidentals, 297,768-69
accompaniment. See also background
material
Alberti-type, 125,126
of arias, 643-52
figuration in, 124
orchestration of, 558-63,611-65
pedal, 243-45,252
of recitatives, 640-42
sparse textures in, 630-35
by string section, 152-58
sustained, 245-52
vocal music, 639-65
by woodwind section, 234-38,243-52
accordatura, 40
A clarinet, 165,170,205,207-8. See also
clarinet
transposition, 169,205-6
aerophones. See also brass instruments;
woodwind instruments
percussion, 435,451-52,466-67
African instruments, 106, 432, 460-61
Age of Anxiety, The (Bernstein), 471
Agon (Stravinsky), 104
Aida (Verdi), 333
a la chitarra, 37
e la pointe, 21
Albert, Stephen, 81
Alberti-type figuration, 125,126
"all," 14
alle, 14
Alpine Symphony (Strauss), 467
Also sprach Zarathustra (Strauss), 14,32,480
al tallone, 22
Altflote, 191
Altklarinette, 215
alto (viola), 65
alto clarinet, 165,205,215
range of, 215,788
transposition, 169
alto clef
oboe da cacda parts, 203
viola d'amore parts, 74
viola parts, 66
alto flute, 165,181,188,191-92
range of, 191, 787
registral characteristics, 191-92
score order of, 760
transposition, 169,170
alto saxophone, 165,237. See also saxophone
family
transposition, 169,218

alto trombone, 341,344-45
range of, 345,790
alto voice, 639
amateur musicians, 741-56
Amboss, 455
American in Paris, An (Gershwin), 467
American Wind Symphony of Pittsburgh,
773
"America the Beautiful" (Ward), 780-81
AmMques (Vardse), 466
am Frosch, 22
am Griffbrett, 31-32
am Steg, 32
Ancient Voices of Children (Crumb), 104
an der Spitze, 21
. . . and the mountains rising nowhere
(Schwantner), 513
"An ein Veilchen" (Brahms), 160-61
Antheil, George
use of percussion, 432
use of siren, 466
antique cymbals. See crotales
anvil, 436,455
Appalachian Spring (Copland), 168,171,282,
506-13
L'Apprenti sorcier (Dukas), 224-25
a punta d'arco, 21
L'Arbre des songes (Dutilleux), 451
area, 34
Ariadne auf Naxos (Strauss), 484-85
arias, 643-52
Aristotle, 3
L'Arlesienne Suite No. 1 (Bizet), 324
L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2 (Bizet), 220
arpa, 89
arpeggiando, 28
arrangements, compared with
transcriptions, 667
Art and Reality: Ways of the Creative Process
(Cary), 547n
articulations
abbreviations for, 767-68
bassoon, 222
brass instruments, 304-6
clarinet, 207
combined, 283-86,548
contrabassoon, 226
flute, 185
horn, 320-22
oboe, 196-97
as structural delineator, 584
trombone, 345-46
trumpet, 332-33
tuba, 351-53
woodwind instruments, 171-73,283-87

815

artificial harmonics
cello, 80-81
viola d'amore, 74
violin, 57-60
violin family, 41,46-48
Art of Orchestration, The (Rogers), 486
Asian instruments, 432,456,458
As Quiet As (Colgrass), 469,471
A string (violin), 54
A string (viola), 67-68
"L'Attente" (Saint-Saiins), 162
"at the frog," 22
"at the point," 21
au chevalet, 32
Audubon (Gould), 467
Austin, Larry, 436
auto horn, 436
avec le bois, 32
avec sourdine, 39
Babbitt, Milton, 195m
Bach, Johann Sebastian, 431
brass writing, 299-300
choral accompaniment, 658-60
contrapuntal string writing, 134-35,
137-39
oboe da caccia writing, 203
oboe d’amore writing, 201,202
oboe writing, 195
orchestral works of, 4
recitatives, 640
solo viola writing, 65
solo violin writing, 61
transcriptions of, 666
trumpet writing, 326,337
Turm-Musik of, 364n
viola d'amore writing, 73
works orchestrated by Stravinsky, 364-65
back (violin), 8
background material. See also
accompaniment
distribution within orchestra, 558-99
instrument registers and, 123-24
solo and tutti sections, 613-18
string contrapuntal writing and, 133-42
string section, 118,123-24
Bacon, Francis, 4
Bagley, E. E., 778-79
Ballet mechanique (Antheil), 432
bands and band music
brass instrumentation in, 340,350n, 354,
355
brass instrument score order, 297
clarinet section in, 715,773
scoring for, 772-84
transcribing to orchestra, 715-41
banjo, 106,106-8
range of, 106-7,787
tuning of, 106-7
Barber, Samuel
cello writing, 81,82
horn writing, 324
tutti writing, 548,550-52
Barber of Seville, The (Rossini), 102
baritone, 354,355
range of, 355, 790

baritone oboe, 194,203-4
baritone saxophone, 165,217. See also
saxophone family
transposition, 169,218
baritone voice, 639
Baroque
accompaniment in, 611
brass instruments in, 296,299-300,358-61
choruses in, 658
double bass in, 86
English horn in, 199
instrumentation in, 4,261,666n
keyboard instruments in, 468,469n, 478
oboe da caccia in, 203
oboe d'amore in, 201
percussion instruments in, 431
polyphonic string writing, 134-39
recitatives, 640
solo cello in, 81
solo viola in, 71
string instrument ranges in, 137
trumpet in, 326
Bartered Bride, The (Smetana), 555-57
Bartok, Bela
accompanimental texture, 632-35
bassoon writing, 225
bowing indications, 21
cimbalom writing, 450
contrapuntal brass writing, 402-7
contrapuntal string writing, 141-42
harmonium writing, 483
harp writing, 95
oboe writing, 198
transcriptions of, 670
trombone writing, 348
use of pizzicato, 36-37
use of string glissando, 15
viola writing, 67,71
violin writing, 61,63
woodwind writing, 178
Bartolozzi, Bruno, 290n
bass clarinet, 165,205,212-14
doubling other instruments, 82,381-82
range of, 212,788
registral characteristics, 213
in Romantic orchestra, 5
score order of, 760
transposition, 169
bass clef
bass clarinet parts, 169n, 212
cello parts, 76
double bass parts, 84
euphonium parts, 354
harp parts, 93
marimba parts, 438
ophicleide parts, 355
trombone parts, 342
tuba parts, 350
viola d'amore parts, 74
bass drum, 431-32,432,463
in opera orchestra, 5
orchestral uses of, 497,536,595
basset horn, 165,205,215-16
range of, 215
transposition, 169
Bassett, Leslie, 540-41

In d e x

Bassetthom, 215
Bassflote, 193
bass flute, 165,181,193
as misnomer for alto flute, 191
range and characteristics of, 193
transposition, 170
Bassklarinette, 212
bass oboe. See baritone oboe
bassoon, 165,166,221,221-25
articulation and tonguing, 222
cello doubling, 82,258
doubling other instruments, 222, 234,245,
277,373,381-91
range of, 221,788
reed, 166
registral characteristics, 170,221-22,636
skips on, 222
trills and tremolos, 222-23
vibrato, 170
writing for multiple bassoons, 223-24
basso profundo voice, 639
bass saxophone, 165,217
transposition, 169,218
bass trombone, 298,341,343-44
playing positions, 344
range of, 343,354,790
registral characteristics, 343
score order of, 760
triggers, 343-44
bass trumpet, 326,339
range of, 339,789
bass tuba, 350
bass voice, 639
battle pieces, 358
battute, 49
bass trumpet, 326
ВВ|>tuba, 349,350
Bt clarinet, 165,170,205,207. See also clarinet
transposition, 169,205-6
Bt trumpet, 326,330-32. See also trumpet
beak (clarinet), 205
beaters, 434-35,453,454,471
Beauregard, Cherry, 349
Becken, 452
Beecham, Thomas, 6
Beethoven, Ludwig van
bowing indications, 19
brass writing, 300,362-63
choral accompaniment, 665
chord spacings of, 254,563-64
double bass writing, 84,116
doublings of, 570
flute writing, 172,187
foreground string writing, 128-30
horn writing, 313,317
operatic vocal ensemble accompaniment,
652-58
orchestral sforzandi, 601
percussion writing, 431-32,435,497-500,
532
reorchestrations of works by, 6
solo-accompaniment registral spacing,
636-37
solo cello writing, 81
solo-tutti orchestration, 612
solo violin writing, 61

string contrapuntal writing, 133-35,578
string quartets of, 111
timpani writing, 446,447
transcriptions of, 666
trombone writing, 346
trumpet writing, 327,328
tutti writing, 554-55
use of alternating instrument choirs,
273-75
use of glass harmonica, 444
use of triangle, 454
viola writing, 71
woodwind writing, 173
written-out effects, 671
Bekker, Paul, 164л
"bells up," 325
bell tree, 436,457
belly (violin), 8
Belshazzar's Feast (Walton), 642
Benson, Warren, 522-26
Berg, Alban
choral accompaniment, 665
composition method of, 6
double bass writing, 87
trombone writing, 347
violin writing, 61,64
Berio, Luciano, 496
Berlioz, Hector, 5
clarinet writing, 242
contrapuntal brass writing, 392-96
doublings of, 276-77
Й clarinet writing, 211
English horn writing, 199,200
oboe writing, 198
ophicleide writing, 355
orchestration book, 5,330,435
orchestration of melody, 599-601
timpani writing, 446,447
trombone writing, 344,346
trumpet writing, 329
use of avec les bois indication, 33
use of bowed tremolo, 30
viola writing, 65,71
woodwind homophonic writing, 256-58
Bernstein, Leonard
percussion writing, 542-44
piano writing, 474
use of upright piano, 471
Billy the Kid (Copland), 451-52,471
bisbigliando, 100
Bizet, Georges
alto saxophone writing, 220
aria accompaniments, 644-48
bassoon writing, 223
choral accompaniment, 665
flute writing, 183-84
horn writing, 314,324
string accompaniment writing, 156-57
transcriptions of, 667,689-99
use of bowed tremolo, 30
use of castanets, 458
use of cymbal, 496
written-out effects, 671
Black Angels (Crumb), 50
blocci di legno cinese, 457
blocci di legno coreano, 458

817

Bloch, Ernest
orchestration of varied texture, 590-95
solo cello writing, 81
timpani writing, 448
use of anvil, 455
use of piano, 469
blocs de bois, 457
В-minor Mass (Bach), 340
bocal (bassoon), 221
Boccherini, Luigi, 81
Boehm, Theobald, 165,193
Boh 'eme, La (Puccini), 333
Bolcom, William, 436
Bolero (Ravel), 219
bongos, 436,464-65
Boris Godunov (Musorgsky), 665
Borodin, Alexander, 47-48
Bottesini, Giovanni, 87
bouche, 322
Boulez, Pierre, 102
bow (cymbal), 452
bowed string instruments. See viola
d'amore; violin family
bowed tremolo, 29-30
with sul ponticello, 32
bow hairs, 17
bowings, 17-28
arpeggiando, 28
ditachi, 21-22
double bass, 87
general observations on, 18-19
jeti, 27
legato, 18-21
loure or portato, 23
marteU, 25
non legato, 17,20
slurs and, 19-20
spiccato, 26-28
staccato, 23-25
bows, 17
Baroque, 11,16
curved,16
double bass, 87
modem, 16-17
unusual placements of, 31-33
used with mallet percussion, 440,443
viola, 66
bow stick, 17
Boyd, Bonita, 180
Brahms, Johannes
chord spadngs of, 566-68
contrabassoon writing, 227
doublings of, 277
flute writing, 181,182,184
foreground string writing, 118-24
harp writing, 95
horn writing, 313,314,315,317,357
orchestral sound of, 3
organ writing, 480
percussion writing, 526-29
piano accompaniments, 160-61
Schoenberg orchestration of works by,
713-15
score layout of, 764-65
solo cello writing, 81
solo violin writing, 61-62
transcriptions of, 666,676-81

trombone writing, 346
trumpet writing, 357
use of alternating instrument choirs, 270
use of pizzicato, 34-35
use of violin G string, 53
brake drum, 457
Brandenburg Concerto No. 2 (Bach), 195,300
Brandenburg Concerto No. 3 (Bach), 137-39
Brant, Henry, 432
brass instruments, 295-311. See also brass
section; individual instruments
alternate fingerings, 603
breathing and phrasing, 304
construction of, 297
crooks, valves, and slides, 301-3
early limitations of, 295-96
functions of, 295
glissandi, 306-7
key signatures for, 297
mutes and muting techniques, 238,307-11
names and abbreviations for, 793
natural, 298-300
number of staves for, 298
ranges of, 2%, 303
tone production, articulation, and
tonguing, 303-6
trills and tremolos, 307
brass quintet, 243n, 312
brass section. See also individual instruments
Classical orchestra, 4
climactic uses of, 413-23
coloristic effects, 424-30
contrapuntal writing for, 392-412
doubling strings or woodwinds, 366-74,
376-92
doublings within modern orchestra,
363-64
early uses of, 357-63
homophonic writing for, 364-74
modem orchestra, 296-97
Romantic orchestra, 5
score order of, 297,758
scoring for, 357-430
as soloist, 375-76
Bratsche, 65
"break" (clarinet), 206,209
bridge (violin), 8,9
playing behind the, 49
Britten, Benjamin
harp writing, 99
horn writing, 299
trombone writing, 348
use of pizzicato, 38
woodwind contrapuntal writing, 263-65
Bruch, Max, 61
Bruckner, Anton
bowing indications, 25
brass writing, 366-71
hom writing, 315
trumpet writing, 329,330
tuba writing, 350
bucket mute, 310,310,334
Butler, Barbara, 325
cabaza, 459
Cailliet, Luden, 309
caisse claire, 461

IN D EX

caisse roulante, 462
сатрапе, 441
campanelli, 440
Cantata No. 21 (Bach), 658-60
Cantata No. 51 (Bach), 326
Capriccio (Strauss), 216
Capriccio espagnol (Rimsky-Korsakov), 27,
185,321,322,329,501-5
Capriccio italien (Tchaikovsky), 337-38,505
Carmen (Bizet), 30,156-57,183-84,223,314,
458,496,644-48, 665
Carmina burana (Orff), 493,662-65
Carnival of the Animals (Saint-Sa^s), 469
Carnival Overture (Dvolak), 278
Carse, Adam, 3
Carter, Elliott
harpsichord writing, 478
rim shot notation, 462
Cary, Joyce, 547n
cassa rullante, 462
cassetina, 457
castanets, 431,432,436,458-59,501
С attachment (double bass), 87
Catulli carmina (Orff), 471
С clarinet, 165,205n
CC tuba, 349,350
celesta, 468,475,475-77,540-41
in bands, 773,774
range of, 475,792
celeste, 475
cello, 7,75. See also violin family
in bands, 774
bow hand positions, 16-17
bowings, 17-28
doubling other instruments, 82-83,132,
156,222,258,347,376
fingering positions, 10,76-77
harmonics, 45,46-48,80-81
multiple stops for, 11,79-80
pizzicato techniques, 33-39
playing position, 75
range of, 76, 786
registral characteristics, 114,123
solo passages for, 81-82
tone quality of, 77-79,114
tuning of, 9, 76
Cello Concerto (Dvolak), 618,620
Cello Concerto (Saint-Saens), 616-18
cencerro, 455
Chabrier, Emmanuel, 505
chalumeau register (bass clarinet), 213
chalumeau register (clarinet), 206,209
chamber ensembles, 708-15
chamber music, 229
"change to," 760
Chen Yi, 432,454
chimes, 432,441-42
range of, 441,791
Chinese cymbals, 454
chitarra, 101
chiuso, 322
chocallo, 459
Chopin, Frederic, transcriptions of,
672-73
chordophones, 7. See also keyboard
instruments; string instruments
percussion, 435,449-51

chords. See also multiple stops
first-inversion, 144-45,255
harp, 94-97
spacing of, 143-44,146,254-55,282,
563-69
vibraphone, 439
wind multiples, 254
winds in pairs, 253-54
winds with different timbres, 254
chorus, 658-65
Christmas Oratorio (Bach), 201,202,337
chromatic scale, violin fingering, 64-65
cimbalini, 454
cimbalom, 432,449-51,715
Circles (Berio), 496
clarinet, 164,205,205-10
articulation and tonguing, 207
in bands, 715
break, 206
cello doubling, 82
coloristic effects, 209
flute doubling, 233
niente attack, 208
oboe doubling, 230,233,575,578
range of, 206,788
reed and mouthpiece, 166
registral characteristics, 170,206-7,555
subtones, 208-9
trills and tremolos, 209
vibrato, 170
writing for multiple clarinets, 210
clarinet family, 165-70,205,210
clarinette, 205
clarinette alto, 215
clarinette basse, 212
clarinetto, 205
clarinetto alto, 215
clarinetto basso, 212
clarino playing (trumpet), 326,327,336,358,
397
clarino register (bass clarinet), 213
clarino register (clarinet), 206-7
Classical era
brass instruments in, 300, 362-63
choruses in, 658
double bass in, 86,116,579
horn in, 313
instrumentation in, 4-5,243,261,297
keyboard instruments in, 468
percussion instruments in, 431-32,
497-500
timpani in, 445-46
trumpet in, 327,328-29
viola in, 71
violin range in, 52
woodwind instruments in, 177
Classical Symphony (Prokofiev), 55
daves, 436,458,512
climaxes
with brass section, 413-23
with percussion section, 513-29
cloth muting, 310-11
Colgrass, Michael, use of piano, 469, 471
col legno, 32,49, 782
col legno battuto, 32-33,731
col legno tratto, 32
Combattimento (Monteverdi), 4

819

concert key, 167
concertmaster, 61
Concerto for Flute and Harp (Mozart), 93
Concerto for Orchestra (Bartok), 21,37,67,178,
198,225,402-7
Concerto for Orchestra No. 2 (Schuller), 201,
217
Concerto for Solo Percussionist (Erb), 177
concerto grosso, 611,612,709
Concerto Grosso, Op. 3, No. 11 (Vivaldi),
135-37
Concerto in F (Gershwin), 425-26
concertos
cello, 81
double bass, 87
orchestral accompaniment of, 611-38
organ, 480
piano, 611
violin, 60-61
concert pitch, 167-70
condensed scores, 764-65,778-81
conga drums, 432,465
conical-tube instruments, 166,297,350,355
Connotations (Copland), 457
conscious spiccato, 26
con sordino, 39,322,333,558
consorts, 4 ,165n, 166
Contemporary Instrumental Techniques (Read),
49
continuo parts, 468,469и, 478,640
contra alto clarinet, 216n
contrabass clarinet, 165,205,216-17
range of, 216,788
transposition, 169
contrabassoon, 165,166,221,225-28,408
doubling other instruments, 226,373,590
range of, 226,788
in Romantic orchestra, 5
score order of, 760
transposition, 169,170
contrabass trombone, 349
contrafagotto, 225
contralto voice, 639
contrapuntal texture
brass writing, 392-412
orchestral writing, 578-85
string writing, 112,115,133-42
transcribing, 672
woodwind writing, 261-70
contrebasson, 225
con vibrato, 171
Cope, David H., 49
Copland, Aaron
clarinet writing, 168,171
doublings of, 282
percussion writing, 506-13
trumpet writing, 332
use of anvil, 455
use of bass drum, 463
use of brake drums, 457
use of "natural" indication, 33
use of piano, 469
use of slap tonguing, 176
use of tin whistle, 451-52
use of upright piano, 471
use of violin harmonics, 59

Coq d'or, Le (Rimsky-Korsakov), 207
cor, 312
cor alto, 314
cor anglais, 199
cor a pistons, 313
cor basso, 314
cor de basset, 215
cor de chasse, 312
Corelli, Arcangelo, 16
Corigliano, John, 452
Coriolanus Overture (Beethoven), 19
comet, 296,326,329,337-38
сото. 312
сото da caccia, 312
сото di bassetto, 215
сото inglese, 199
сото naturale, 312
ccnmo ventile, 313
cor simple, 312
coupling, in string parts, 112,114,125
"cover head," 461
cowbells, 436,455-56
crash cymbals, 452-53
Creation, The (Haydn), 187,640,660-62
Creation du monde, La (Milhaud), 88
crook (bassoon), 221
crooks
brass instruments, 301
horn, 314
trumpet, 327-28
cross-cues, 767
crotales (antique cymbals), 436,442-43,45
540
in bands, 773
crotali, 442
Crumb, George
mandolin writing, 104,105
percussion setup, 495
percussion writing, 432,443
use of contemporary string techniques,!
use of cowbells, 455
crystal glasses, 444-45
С string (viola), 67
С trumpet, 326,330-32. See also trumpet
С tuba, 350
cuivre, 324
cup (cymbal), 452
cup mute, 308,308,334
cutout score, 760-61
cyiindrical-tube instruments, 166,297
cymbales, 452
cymbales digitales, 454
cymbals, 431-32,452-54. See also Chinese
cymbals; crash cymbals; finger
cymbals; hi-hat cymbals; sizzle
cymbal; suspended cymbals
in opera orchestra, 5
orchestral uses of, 497, 501,513,532,574
cythare, 108
Dahl, Ingolf, 215
da leggii, 13
Damnation of Faust, The (Berlioz), 256-58
damper pedal, 470-71
Dance Rhapsody (Delius), 204
Dance Suite after Couperin (Strauss), 478

In d e x

Danse macabre (Saint-Saens), 40
Daphnis el СЫоё (Ravel), 98,186,188
D attachment or trigger (trombone), 344
Daugherty, Michael, 436
Davidovsky, Mario, 436
D clarinet, 165,170,211-12
range of, 211,788
transposition, 169,170
"dead stroking" or "dead sticking," 440
Deak, Jon, 87
Death ofProcris, The (Polin), 176,187
Debussy, Claude
brass writing, 305
chord spadngs of, 568-69
composition method of, 6
doublings of, 570,601
flute writing, 182
harp writing, 91,92,97,98
horn writing, 322
percussion writing, 513-22,540
trumpet writing, 335
use of divided strings, 12-13
use of fingered tremolo, 30
use of piano, 469
use of pizzicato, 38
use of "pulsating" unisons, 283-86
use of string harmonics, 47
use of sur la touche indication, 31-32
viola writing, 71
woodwind writing, 242-43
Delius, Frederick, 204
derby (as mute), 310,424-25
detache, 21-22
deutsches Requiem, Ein (Brahms), 95-97
Devils of Loudon, The (Penderecki), 102
dialogue, 612-13
Diamond, David, 39
dieHalfte, 14
Dies irae (Penderecki), 289
Dittersdorf, Carl Ditters von, 87
Divertimento (Bartok), 63
Divertissement (Trojahn), 195n
"divide by stand," 13
divided strings, 12-14,146-47,148
divisis, 12
divisi, 12-13,55,78,86,144,146-47,148,
179
dome (cymbal), 452
Don Giovanni (Mozart), 104-5
Don Juan (Strauss), 55,62,318,321,376
Don Quixote (Strauss), 72,81-82,306,354,
376-77,467
double bass, 7 ,83,83-88. See also violin
family
in bands, 774
bow hand positions, 16-17
bowings, 17-28,87
С attachment for, 87
cello doubling, 82
fingering positions, 10, 85
five-stringed, 9
harmonics, 45,46-48,86,269
multiple stops for, 11,86
pizzicato techniques, 33-39
range of, 84,786
registral characteristics, 122,146,548

role in Classical orchestra, 116,579
skips on, 85
solo passages for, 87-#8
tuba doubling, 353,380
tuning of, 9, 83
Double Concerto (Brahms), 81
Double Concerto (Carter), 478
double hom, 315
double reed instruments, 166,194-204,
221-28
double reeds, 166
double stops, 11,146,565
cello, 76,79
double bass, 86
viola, 68
violin, 56
double tonguing
bassoon, 222
brass instruments, 304,305
clarinet, 207
flute, 185
hom, 321
oboe, 196
piccolo, 269-70
trombone, 345-46
trtimpet, 332-33
tuba, 352
woodwind instruments, 172-73,283
doublings
in bands, 716,772-73
with bassoon, 2??, 234
brass instruments within modem
orchestra, 363-64
brass section with other instruments,
366-74,376-92
with cello, 82-83,132,156,222,258,347,
376
within chordal texture, 569-70
with contrabassoon, 226
elaborative, 601
in full orchestra, 563-69
octave, 548,550-57,570-78,600-601
with organ, 157
with piano, 469,471-73
in string section, 129-33,146,147,157
unison, 548-49,570,600
for voice parts, 639,648, 658-65
in woodwind section, 230,233-35,238-41,
259-60,283-86,292
woodwind section with other instruments,
276-82
dovetailing, 146,159,160-61,184,602
down-bow, 17,18-19,22,23,25
drag, 461
Dragon, Carmen, 780-81
Dragonetti, Domenico, 87
Druckman, Jacob, 428-30
"Drum Roll" Symphony (Haydn), 126-27,
446
D string (violin), 54
D string (viola), 67
D trumpet, 295,326,336
Dukas, Paul, 224-25
dulcimer. See cimbalom
Dumbarton Oaks Concerto (Stravinsky), 26
Dutilleux, Henri, 451

821

Dvorak, Antonin
doublings of, 278
flute writing, 182
solo cello writing, 81
solo violin writing, 61
transcriptions of, 666, 681-88
use of color contrasts, 618,620
woodwind serenades, 229
dynamic envelopes, 173
dynamics
brass instruments, 296,332,352,363-64,
408,413,418,548
chimes, 441-42
chord spacing and, 143-44,563,568-69
doubling and, 569-70,600-601
percussion instruments, 486
registral characteristics and, 146-47,195,
600
score placement of, 758
textural, 670
woodwind instruments, 170,173,208-9,
211,222

Eastman Wind Ensemble, 773
E attachment or trigger (trombone), 341, 344
Et bass trumpet, 326
Et clarinet, 165,170,205,211-12
range of, 211, 788
transposition, 169,170,205-6
El» trumpet, 336
Et tuba, 350
Echoes of Time and the River (Crumb), 105, 495
edge (cymbal), 452
1812 Overture (Tchaikovsky), 386-88
electronic organ, 481
electronic techniques, 435-36
Elgar, Edward
bowing indications, 17
brass writing, 372
Elijah (Mendelssohn), 152-54,641
embouchure
brass instruments, 303-4
woodwind instruments, 165
Emperor Quartet, Op. 76, No. 3 (Haydn),
111-16,117-18
enclosed chord spacing, 253,363,563
enclume, 455
Englisches Horn, 199
English horn, 165,166,194,199-201,242
coloristic effects, 201
in Haydn's symphonies, 177n
range of, 199, 788
registral characteristics, 199-200
in Romantic orchestra, 5,199,599-600
score order of, 760
transposition, 169,170
trills and tremolos, 201
enharmonic spellings, 92
Enigma Variations (Elgar), 372
Entfiihrung aus dem Serail, Die (Mozart), 492
Erb, Donald
use of electronics, 436
use of whistle tones, 177
erecelle, 460
Erwartung (Schoenberg), 354,408
Escales (Ibert), 505

Espana (Chabrier), 505
Essay for Orchestra No. 1 (Barber), 82
E string (violin), 55
Etude, Op. 25, No. 6 (Chopin), 672-73
euphonium, 296,349,354-55
mutes for, 307
range of, 354, 790
score order of, 298,758
Euryanthe Overture (Weber), 25,139-40
Falla, Manuel de, 478
Falsiaff (Verdi), 349
Fancy Free (Bernstein), 542-44
"Farewell" Symphony (Haydn), 314
F attachment or trigger (trombone), 341,343,
344
Faur£, Gabriel, 157-58
Faust (Gounod), 480
Fennell, Frederick, 772,773,778
Feste romane (Respighi), 104,495и
F-hole (violin), 8,9
Fidelio (Beethoven), 652-58,665
field drum, 462-63,506
fifth partial, 43
fifth position, 10
cello, 77
double bass, 85
viola, 66
violin, 52-53
figured bass. See continuo parts
Fingal’s Cave Overture (Mendelssohn), 210
fingerboard (violin), 8, 8
finger cymbals, 436,442,454
fingered glissando (string), 16
fingered tremolo, 30
with sul ponticello, 32
fingering positions
cello, 76-77
double bass, 85
viola, 66-67
violin, 52-53,64
violin family, 10,50
fingernail pizzicato, 36-37
Fingerzimbeln, 454
first-inversion chords, 144-45,255
first partial, 42
first position, 10
cello, 77
double bass, 85
viola, 66
violin, 52-53
Five Pieces for Orchestra (Schoenberg), 408-12,
441,595-99
flam, 461
Flatterzunge, 174
flautando, 32
flauto, 180
flauto basso, 193
flauto contralto, 191
flauto piccolo, 189
Fledermaus, Die (J. Strauss), 249-52
flessatono, 444
Flexatcm, 444
flexatone, 436,444
fliegende Hollander, Der (Wagner), 31,352
Flos Campi (Vaughan Williams), 71

Flote, 180
flugelhom, 326,340
flute, 164,165,180-81,180-89
articulation and tonguing, 185
clarinet doubling, 233
coloristic effects, 186-87
harmonics, 186
oboe doubling, 233,259-60,283-86
range of, 181,787
registral characteristics, 170,181-84,195,
555,566,636
trills and tremolos, 185-86
vibrato, 170
whistle tones, 176-77
writing for multiple flutes, 187-89,570,
772
fiate, 180
flute bass, 193
Flute Concerto in G Major (Mozart), 624-27
flUte en sol, 191
flute family, 165-67,181
flutter tonguing, 174,306,408
flute, 186-87
tuba, 354
Foote, Arthur, 38
foreground material. See also melody
distribution within orchestra, 558-99
instrument registers and, 123-24
solo and tutti sections, 613-18
string contrapuntal writing and, 133-42
string section, 118-33
textural and timbral changes in, 125-29
unison or octave doublings in, 129-33,
238-41,570-78, 600-601
form, orchestration as delineator of, 234,
242-43,413,547,584,595,612
Forsyth, Cedi, 164,297
fortepiano, 468
forte subito piano attack, 304,601-2
Foss, Lukas
use of anvil, 455
use of contemporary string techniques, 50
fouet, 460
Four Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes
(Britten), 99
four-stroke ruff, 461
fourth partial, 43
fourth position, 10
cello, 77
double bass, 85
viola, 66
violin, 52-53
Francesca da Rimini (Tchaikovsky), 558-59
Francesca da Rimini (Zandonai), 193
Franck, Cesar, 416-18
Freischutz, Der (Weber), 242,319, 560-61,
564-65,665
French horn, 312. See also horn
frog (bow), 17,19,22
frullato, 174
frusta, 460
F tuba, 349,350
fugues, 135-37,139-42
full tutti, 548
fundamental tone, 42,299, 303,313. See also
pedal tone

Gabrieli, Giovanni, 357-58
Gallo, Domenico, 708л
Galway, James, 452
Gandini, Gerardo, 432
Gayne Ballet (Khachaturian), 347
Gt attachment or trigger (bass trombone),
344
Geige, 51
Gershwin, George
banjo writing, 107-8
brass writing, 309,424-26
darinet writing, 175
trumpet writing, 335
use of motor horns, 467
gestopft, 322,333
geteUt, 12-13
Gevaert, Francois, 67
Ginastera, Alberto, 432
glass harmonica, 444
glissando
brass instruments, 306-7
chimes, 442
harp, 99-100
horn, 324
orchestral, 548,552
timpani, 446
trombone, 344,347
trumpet, 335-36
vibraphone, 439
violin family, 15-16
woodwind instruments, 175,209
xylophone, 437
Glocken, 441
glockenspiel, 432,432,440-41
in bands, 773
range of, 441,791
Gluck, Christoph Willibald
bowing indications, 22
piccolo writing, 190
use of crystal glasses, 444
gongs, 431,432,456
Gotterdammerung, Die (Wagner), 213
Gould, Morton
use of "rip" effect, 426-27
use of wind machine, 467
Gounod, Charles
organ writing, 480,482
wind symphony, 229
grace notes, divided, 270
Grainger, Percy, 773
gran cassa, 463
Grand Canyon Suite (Grofe), 309
Grandjany, Marcelo, 92
grelots, 457
Gretry, Andre Ernest Modeste, 104
Grieg, Edvard
homophonic string writing, 147-48
transcriptions of, 666
Grofe, Ferde, 309
grosse caisse, 463
Grosse Trommel, 463
G string (violin), 53,54
G string (viola), 67
guiro, 436,460
guitar, 101,101-3
harmonics, 102

guitar (continued)
orchestral passages for, 102-3
range of, 102,787
tuning of, 102
guitare, 101
Guitarre, 101
Gurrelieder (Schoenberg), 408
Halevy, Jacques, 480
"half," 14
half harmonics, 50
half positions, 52n, 64-65
hammer, 461
Handel, George Frideric
bowing indications, 23
brass writing, 299,358-61
contrapuntal string writing, 134-35
horn writing, 319
recitatives, 640
reorchestrations of works by, 6
transcriptions of, 666
hand hom, 313
hand muting, 310. See also stopped hom
Hansel und Gretel (Humperdinck), 319
hard tonguing
hom, 320
woodwind instruments, 283
Harfe, 89
harmonics
cello, 80-81
double bass, 86,269
flute, 186
guitar, 102
half, 50
harp, 98-99
string, 41-49
viola, 66
viola d'amore, 74
violin, 57-60
harmonic series, 42,298-300
harmonium, 483,483-85
as orchestra member, 449
range of, 483,792
harmon mute, 309,309,334,424,428
harmony, woodwind section as provider of,
243-52
Harold in Italy (Berlioz), 71
harp, 89,89-101,540
in bands, 774
chords on, 94-97
chromatic, 89
double-action, 89-101
glissando, 99-100
harmonics, 98-99
notation for, 93-94
pedals, 89,90-92
range of, 90,786
score order, 488
special effects for, 99-101
tone color of, 92
trills, tremolos, and bisbigliando, 100
tuning of, 90
harpe, 89
harpsichord, 478,478-79
as orchestra member, 449,468,469n
range of, 478,792

Harris, Roy
cello writing, 78
tuba writing, 350
Harrison, Lou, 432
Hdry ]dnos Suite (Kodily), 198,450-51
hat (as mute), 310,334,424-25
Haubenstock-Ramati, Roman, 443,444-45
Hauptstimme, 595,599,713
hautbois, 193
Haydn, Franz Joseph
choral accompaniment, 660-62
double bass writing, 116
flute writing, 187
foreground string writing, 126-27
hom writing, 314,315
orchestra of, 4 ,177n
recitatives, 640
solo cello writing, 81
string quartets of, 111-16
timpani writing, 446
trumpet writing, 326,327
use of glass harmonica, 444
use of keyboard continuo, 468,478
use of percussion, 431
use of triangle, 454
head joint (flute), 166
Hebrides Overture (Mendelssohn), 210
Heckel, Wilhelm, 203
heckelphone, 165,166,194,203-4
Henze, Hans Werner, 87
Herbert, Victor, 81
Herz, Gerhard, 431 n
Heussenstamm, George, 770
hi-hat cymbals, 453
Hindemith, Paul
bowing indications, 24
brass writing, 375-76
contrapuntal brass writing, 398-402
foreground string writing, 130-31
harmonium writing, 483
solo cello writing, 81
use of siren, 466
use of string trills, 29
viola d'amore writing, 73,75
viola writing, 67,68, 71
L'Histoire du soldat (Stravinsky), 208
History of Orchestration, The (Carse), 3
Hoboe, 193
Hodkinson, Sydney, 177
Hoffman, Melchior, 431 n
Holliger, Heinz, 201
Holst, Gustav
alto flute writing, 192
orchestration of varied texture, 588-90
works for band, 773
Holtzhammer, 461
Holzblocke, 457
homophonic texture
brass writing, 358-61,364-74
orchestral writing, 558-78,583
string writing, 137,139,143-52
woodwind writing, 252-60
hom, 302,322,312-25
articulations and tonguing, 320-22
"bells up" effect, 325
cello doubling, 82,376

crooks and valves, 301-2,314-16
cuivre effect, 324
divided, 314-15,316
doubling other instruments, 386-91
glissandi, 306-7,324
mouthpiece, 297
mute for, 307,322
pedal tones of, 303
ranges of, 313,314,315-16,789
registral characteristics, 316
score order of, 297,316,760
staves for, 298
stopped vs. unstopped notes, 313,322-23
transpositions, 314,317
trills and tremolos, 323-24
in woodwind section, 229,243-45,312
writing for multiple horns, 318-20,376
horn 5ths, 301,565-66
Hombostel, Erich von, 435
Horn Concerto No. 2 (Mozart), 620-24
Huguenots, Les (Meyerbeer), 73,74
Hummel, Johann Nepomuk, 327
Humperdinck, Engelbert, 319
Hungarian Dance No. 1 (Brahms), 676-81
Hungarian Rhapsodies (Liszt), 667
Husa, Karel, 667
Iberia (Debussy), 31,38,47
Ibert, Jacques, 505
idee fixe, 241-42
idiophones, 435,437-45,452-61
Incredible Flutist, The (Piston), 184
incudine, 455
D'Indy, Vincent
trumpet writing, 337
tutti writing, 548-59
use of piano, 469
In ecclesiis (Gabrieli), 357-58
Infernal Machine (Rouse), 466
in modo ordinario, 33
instrumentation
bands, 715,772-75
Baroque, 4, 6
brass section, 296-97
Classical, 4-5,177,187
late nineteenth and twentieth centuries,
177,188
Romantic era, 5,177,187-88
string section, 8
wind ensembles, 773
woodwind section, 177
interlocked chord spacing, 253,363,563
Interplay (Gould), 426-27
Interplay (Hodkinson), 177
intonation. See also tunings
of brass instruments, 299-300,302-3
of woodwind instruments, 165-66,170
Ionisation (Varese), 432,4%
Iphigenia in Aulis (Gluck), 22
Iphigenie en Tauride (Gluck), 190
Irisation for Orchestra (Stachowski), 290
Istar (D'Indy), 549
Ives, Charles, 310-11
]. S. Bach Chorale Variations (Stravinsky),
364-65,397-98

jawbone, 459-60
jazz
coloristic effects, 424-27
flugelhom in, 340
glissandi in, 306
mutes in, 308-10
saxophones in, 217,218-19
tom-toms in, 463
trumpet in, 303,331
jazz charts, 760
Jefferson, Thomas, 106
jete, 27
jeu de cloches, 441
jeu de timbres, 440
Jeux (Debussy), 305
Jeux d'enfants (Bizet), 667,671,689-99
Jongleur de Notre Dame, Le (Massenet), 73
Judas Maccabaeus (Handel), 319
Juive, La (Halevy), 480
juxtaposed chord spacing, 253,363,563
Kagel, Mauricio, 443
kameso, 459
Kammermusik No. 6 (Hindemith), 73
keyboard instruments, 449,468-85. See
also individual instruments
percussion, 432,469
score order, 487-88
scoring for, 486-544
key clicks, 176,197,209
key signatures, 170
for brass instruments, 297
score placement of, 758
Khachaturian, Aram, 347
Killmer, Richard, 294
Kindertotenlieder (Mahler), 561-63
Klangfarbenfunk (Erb), 436
Klangfarbenmelodie, 563,604-7
Klarinette, 205
Klavier, 468
Kleine Flote, 189
kleine Nachtmusik, Eine (Mozart), 125-26
Kleine Senate (Hindemith), 75
Kleine Trommel, 461
Kodaly, Zoltan
cimbalom writing, 450,715
clarinet writing, 209
oboe writing, 198
Kontrafagott, 225
Kotonski, Wlodzimierz, 495
Koussevitzky, Serge, 87
Kuba-Pauken, 464
Kuhglocken, 455
Lalo, Edouard
solo cello writing, 81
solo violin writing, 61
lame musicale, 443
la meta, 14
la moitii, 14
Latin American instruments, 432,458,
459-60,464-65
left-hand pizzicato, 35-36
legato
alto clarinet, 215
bass clarinet, 213

legato (continued)
brass instruments, 304
clarinet, 211
contrabassoon, 226
flute, 183
horn, 321
string instruments, 18—
21
trombone, 345
trumpet, 332
tuba, 351
woodwind instruments, 171
leitmotif, 241-42
Leonore Overture No. 3 (Beethoven), 129-30,
328
'let vibrate," 38
Liebesgeige, 73
Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen (Mahler),
648-52,670
Lieutenant Kiji (Prokofiev), 190
Life Pulse Prelude (Austin), 436
lion's roar, 466
lip glissando (trombone), 347
lip slur, 306
Liszt, Franz
bowing indications, 20
solo-accompaniment registral spacing,
637-38
transcriptions of, 666,667
trombone-bassoon-string doubling,
385-86
Loeffler, Charles, 73
log drum, 460-61
Lohengrin (Wagner), 70,389-91,480
louri, 23
Lully, Jean-Baptiste, orchestra of, 4
Lutostewski, Witold, 81
l.v., 38,434,439,455,532
Lyric Suite (Berg), 64
Madama Butterfly (Puccini), 32,54,73
Mahler, Gustav, 5
bowing indications, 26
chord spadngs of, 568
clarinet writing, 210
double bass writing, 84
doublings of, 570,573-75,772
Et clarinet writing, 212
horn writing, 318,323,325,376
mandolin writing, 104
melody-accompaniment orchestration,
561-63
orchestral song accompaniments, 648-52
orchestral works of, 6
organ writing, 480
reorchestration of other composers'
works, 6
score layout of, 762-63
trumpet writing, 329,330,334
tuba writing, 351,353
use of cowbells, 455
use of hammer, 461
use of scordatura, 41
use of string glissandi, 15-16
written-out effects, 670
mallet percussion, 437-43
bowing, 440,443
"dead stroking," 440

mallets, 434-35
bass drum, 463
chimes, 442
стоtales, 442
cymbals, 453
glockenspiel, 441
gong, 456
marimba, 438-39
slit drum, 461
steel drums, 443
tambourine, 466
tenor drum, 462
timbales, 464
timpani, 446
tom-tom, 464
vibraphone, 439
wood block, 457
xylophone, 437-38
Malone, Eileen, 89
Ma тёте I'oye (Ravel), 228,668-69,699-708
mandolin, 103-6,104,408
orchestral passages for, 104-6
range of, 103,787
tuning of, 103
Mandoline, 103
mandolino, 103
Mannheim School, 4,468
maracas, 436,459
marcato, 25
Marcellus, John, 341
marching bands, 773
marimba, 432,438-39
in bands, 773
range of, 438,791
Manmbaphon, 438
Maroges, Jacques, 547
Marriage of Figaro, The (Mozart). See Nozze di
Figaro, Le
marteau sans maitre, Le (Boulez), 102
niartele, 25
martellato, 25
Martin, Frank
harpsichord writing, 478
use of piano, 469
Martinu, Bohuslav, 31
Mascagni, Pietro, 482
Massenet, Jules
hom writing, 314
viola d'amore writing, 73
Mathis der Maler (Hindemith), 29,130-31
Mayrhofer family, 215
Mayuzumi, Toshiro, 443
measured effects, string, 30-31
Mediterranean instruments, 431,458-59,
465,505
Meistersinger, Die (Wagner), 63,85,353,
575-78,584-85
melody
brass section as provider of, 375-92
combined articulations in, 286-87,548
orchestration of, 558-63,599-607
woodwind section as provider of, 230-34,
238-43
"Melody" (Schumann), 292-93
membranophones, 435, 445-49,461-66
Mendelssohn, Felix
bowing indications, 19-20, 28

clarinet writing, 210
doublings of, 570
flute writing, 185
oboe writing, 196
ophideide writing, 355
organ writing, 480
redtatives, 641
solo-tutti orchestration, 629-30
solo violin writing, 61
string accompaniment writing, 152-54
trumpet writing, 329
use of bowed tremolo, 30
viola writing, 70
woodwind writing, 173
Mengelberg, Willem, 6
Menuet antique (Ravel), 669
Mer, La (Debussy), 30,283-86,568-69,601
Messiaen, Olivier, 455
Messiah (Handel), 6,23
metal idiophones, 452-57
Metropolis Symphony (Daugherty), 436
Meyerbeer, Giacomo
English hom writing, 199
ophideide writing, 355
organ writing, 480
viola d'amore writing, 73,74
mezzo-soprano def, 203
mezzo-soprano voice, 639
microtones, 175,201
Middle Ages
double reed instruments, 203
instrumentation in, 4
vocal music in, 611
middleground material
distribution within orchestra, 558-99
string contrapuntal writing and, 133-42
string section, 118
Midsummer Night's Dream, A (Mendelssohn),
70,329
Mibokosmos (Bartok), 670
Milhaud, Darius
double bass writing, 88
solo cello writing, 81
transcriptions of, 716-26,782-83
wind symphony, 229
Miniatures for Baroque Ensemble (Powell),
478-79
Missa solemnis (Beethoven), 563-64
mit Dampfer, 39
mit Holz, 32
Modem Studies (Salzedo), 99
Monteverdi, Claudio, 4
Mort de Tintagiles, La (Loeffler), 73
motor horns, 467
mouthpieces
brass instruments, 296-97
darinet, 166
hom, 297
trombone, 297
trumpet, 297
tuba, 297
Movements for Piano and Orchestra
(Stravinsky), 761
Mozart, Leopold, 4
Mozart, Wolfgang Amadeus
bassoon writing, 223
brass writing, 300

clarinet writing, 210
contrapuntal writing, 578-83
double bass writing, 116
doublings of, 570,583
flute writing, 187
foreground string writing, 125-26
harp writing, 93
mandolin writing, 104-5
orchestra of, 4
percussion writing, 492
piano music, 291
piccolo writing, 190
reorchestration of Handel's Messiah, 6
string accompaniment writing, 155-56
string quartets of. I l l
timpani writing, 446
trombone writing, 345-46
trumpet writing, 326
tutti writing, 552-53
use of color contrasts, 620-27
use of glass harmonica, 444
use of keyboard continuo, 468
use of percussion, 431
use of scordatura, 41
viola writing, 65,71
violin writing, 61
woodwind accompaniment writing,
243-49
woodwind combinations, 234
woodwind contrapuntal writing, 261-62
woodwind divertimenti and serenades,
229
multi-octave tutti, 552-57
multiphonics
darinet, 209
English hom, 201
flute, 186-87
oboe, 197-98
woodwind, 175,290
multiple stops
cello, 79-80
double bass, 86
viola, 68-69
violin, 55-57
violin family, 11
musica fracta, 4
musical cues, 767
musical saw, 436,443-44
musical sociata, 4
Music for Prague (Husa), 667
Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta
(Bartok), 15,141-42
Music for the Theater (Copland), 176
Music Notation in the Twentieth Century
(Stone), 49,50,100,177n, 433n
Musorgsky, Modeste
choral accompaniment, 665
Ravel orchestration of works by, 351,
373-74,667,673-75
"muta in," 760
mutes and muting
brass, 238,307-11,424-26
hom, 322-23
as orchestral parallel to urn corda pedal,
672
snare drum, 461
string, 39-40,238

mutes and muting (continued)
timpani, 446
trombone, 347
trumpet, 333-35
tuba, 353
woodwind, 174

Nozze di Figaro, Le (Mozart), 155-56,223,
234n, 245-49,277
nut (violin), 8,9
bowing near, 50
Nutcracker, The (Tchaikovsky), 93-94,101,
188,476

Nancarrow, Conlon, 471
National Emblem (Bagley), 778-79
nationalism, 432
"natural," 33
naturale, 33
natural harmonics
cello, 80-81
double bass, 86
viola d'amore, 74
violin family, 41-45
natural horn, 312,313-15,357. See also horn
natural trumpet, 326-29,357. See also
trumpet
Nebenstimme, 595,599
neck (violin), 8,8
Neidich, Charles, 205
New Directions in Music (Cope), 49
New England Triptych (Schuman), 259-60,
513
New Sounds for Woodwinds (Bartolozzi), 290n
Nielsen, Carl, 222
niente attack (clarinet), 208
Nobilissima visione (Hindemith), 375-76
Noces, Les (Stravinsky), 471,494
Nocturnes (Debussy), 12-13,98,242-43,335,
513-22
nodes, 42
non arpegg., 37
non div., 12,146, 565
non legato, 17,20
non vibrato, 14,171
normale, 33,171
Norton Manual of Music Notation, The
(Heussenstamm), 770
notation. See also preparation of score and
parts
artificial harmonics, 46
brass instruments, 297
cello thumb fingerings, 76
contemporary string techniques, 49-50,
149-51
contemporary wind techniques, 177,187,
197,209,288-90,428-30
cymbals, 453-54
harp chords, 95
harp harmonics, 98
harp music, 93-94
harp pedaling, 91-92
horn parts, 317
natural harmonics, 44—45,186
organ,480
percussion instruments, 433-35,489-91
roto toms, 448-49
snare drum, 461-62
software programs, 758,768-69
timpani, 446-47,448 49
triangle, 455
trumpet parts, 330
woodwind instruments, 178-79

Oberon (Weber), 39-40,102
oboe, 165,193-98,194
articulation and tonguing, 196-97
clarinet doubling, 230,233,575,578
coloristic effects, 197-98
doubling other instruments, 198
flute doubling, 233,259-60,283-86
range of, 194,787
reed, 166,194,197
registral characteristics, 170,194-95,555
skips on, 196-97
trills and tremolos, 197
trumpet doubling, 380
vibrato, 170
viola doubling, 258
writing for multiple oboes, 198
oboe da caccia, 199,203
oboe d'amore, 165,166,194,201-3
range and registral characteristics, 201
oboe family, 165-67,194
octave tutti, 548,550-52
offen, 333-34
ohne Dampfer, 40
"O liebliche Wangen" (Brahms), 161
On the Town (Bernstein), 474
open, 323,334
open strings, 9
multiple stops with, 11
vibrato simulation on, 14
violin, 53
opera arias, 643-52
opera orchestras, 5,362,482,611
operatic choruses, 665
operatic vocal ensemble, 652-58
ophicleide, 296,350,355
orchestra
as accompanist, 611-65
Baroque, 4,431,611
Classical, 4-5,116,177,243,261,297,362,
431-32
late nineteenth and twentieth centuries,
177,432-33
Romantic, 177,431
Orchestra, The (Bekker), 164n
orchestral songs, 643
orchestral terms, list of, 795-96
orchestration. See also specific topics
accompaniment, 611-65
changing tastes in, 5-6
chords for full orchestra, 563-69
climactic techniques, 413-23, 555
color contrasts between choirs, 270-75,
416-18,590
color contrasts between solo and
orchestra, 618-27
color contrasts in, 547,558,561,563,
573-75,584,612,720
coloring a note, 603
creating special effects, 601-7

IN D EX

doublings, 569-78
dovetailing, 146,159,160-61,184,602
foreground-middleground-background
elements in, 558-99
holding back instruments, 413-16
homophonic texture, 558-78
individual tastes in, 3,254-55,292,570
melody or primary gesture, 599-607
melody with accompaniment, 558-63
recitative accompaniment, 640-42
repetition, 418-23
sforaindi and forte subito piano attacks, 601-2
solo-tutti dialogue, 612-13
solo-tutti rhythmic independence, 627-30
spacing and registral placement for solo
and accompaniment, 635-38
teaching, 230,293
texts on, 5,164,191,330,435,486,547n
transcribing band music, 715-41
transcribing chamber ensemble music,
708-15
transcribing for available forces, 741-56
transcribing keyboard music, 668-708
transcribing to band, 782-83
unison-octave tutti, 548-57
varied texture, 586-99
Orchestration (Forsyth), 164,297
Orchestration (Piston), 295
Orff, Carl
choral accompaniment, 662-65
percussion writing, 493
use of piano, 471
organ, 480
doubling strings, 157
as orchestra member, 449,468,480-82
pipe registrations, 239
range of, 480-81,792
organetto, 483
organo, 480
Orgel, 480
orgue, 480
Otello (Verdi), 104,480,665
ottaoino, 189
Outdoor Overture (Copland), 332
overblowing, 166,298-300
overlapped chord spacing, 253,363
overlapping. See dovetailing
overtones, 42,143
Pachelbel, Johann, 364n
page turns, 766-67
Palestrina (Pfitzner), 73
par pupitres, 13
partials, 42
partial tutti, 548
Partita (Penderecki), 478
Passacaglia, Op. 1 (Webern), 607
Pauken, 445
Pavane pour une infante dtfunte (Ravel), 318
pedal notes, 243-45,252,563,572
pedal point, 116
pedals
chimes, 441
cimbalom, 449
harp, 89,90-92
harpsichord, 478

piano, 470-71,672
vibraphone, 439
pedal tones
bass trombone, 344
brass instruments, 299,303
horn, 316
trombone, 342
Peer Gynt Suite No. 1 (Grieg), 147-48
pegbox (violin), 8
pegs (double bass), 84
pegs (violin), 8,8-9
Peitsche, 460
Penderecki, Krzysztof
guitar writing, 102
harpsichord writing, 478
solo cello writing, 81
solo violin writing, 61
string writing, 148-51
woodwind writing, 289
percussion clef, 434
percussion ensemble, 432,4%
percussion instruments
categories of, 435-36
definite pitch, 435,437-52,491
indefinite pitch, 435,452-67,487,489-91
mallets, beaters, and sticks for, 434-35
names and abbreviations for, 793-95
notation for, 433-35,489-91
percussion section, 431-67. See also individual
instruments
in band or wind ensemble, 773-74
Classical orchestra, 5
climactic uses of, 513-29
coloring pitches or passages, 536-44
creating a dramatic beginning, 529-35
emphasizing rhythmic accentuation,
506-13
number and distribution in, 433,488
Romantic orchestra, 5
score order and layout, 486-94
scoring for, 486-544
setups for, 494-96
simulating march or ethnic music, 497-505
Pergolesi, Giovanni Battista, 708
Persichetti, Vincent, 33
petite flUte, 189
Petite symphonic concertante (Martin), 478
Petrushka (Stravinsky), 270,338,469,471-72
Pezel, Johann Christoph, 364и
Pfitzner, Hans, 73
Phxdre (Massenet), 314
Phaelon (Rouse), 457
piano, 468-75,469
as accompanying instrument, 473-74
in bands, 773,774
doubling other instruments, 469,471-73
as filler instrument, 469,742
novel effects on, 471
orchestral uses of, 449,468-69,507,540-41
pedals, 159,470-71
as percussion instrument, 469
range of, 470,791
transcribing to orchestral parts, 668-708
transcribing to string parts, 159-62
transcribing to winds and strings, 291-93
writing for multiple pianos, 471

829

830

In d e x

Piano Concerto (Schumann), 612-13
Piano Concerto in С Major, K. 503 (Mozart),
234n, 327
Piano Concerto in Et (Liszt), 637-38
Piano Concerto in G minor (Mendelssphn),
30
Piano Concerto No. 1 (Tchaikovsky), 182,
61J-15
Piano Concerto No. 3 (Bart6k), 632-35
Piano Concerto No. 4 (Beethoven), 128-29
Piano Concerto No. 5 (Beethoven), 300
pianoforte, 468
Piano Quartet in G Minor (BrahmsSchoenberg), 713-15
Piano Quintet (Schumann), 743-46
piano reductions, 6,252-53,742,764-65
Piano Sonata, K. 331 (Mozart), 291
piatti, 452
piccolo, 165,181,189-91
in Classical orchestra, 177n
range of, 189,787
registral characteristics, 170,189-91,
269-70,568-69
in Romantic orchestra, 5,187-88
score order of, 760
transposition, 169,170
piccolo clarinet. See D clarinet; Й>clarinet
piccolo trumpet, 326,336
Pictures at an Exhibition (Musorgsky- Ravel),
351,373-74,667,673-75
Pied Piper Fantasy (Corigliano), 452
Pines of Rome, The (Respighi), 87
pipe organ, 480-81
Piston, Walter, 295,486
flute writing, 184
on orchestration, 4
pizzicato, 33-39,156
as accompaniment, 558
left-hand, 35-36
percussion with, 513,542
plectrum, 50
sforzando attack and, 601
snap or fingernail, 36-37
transcribing for band, 782
pizzicato chords, 37-39
Planets, The (Holst), 192,588-90
player piano, 471
playing into the stand (brass), 310,334
Plow That Broke the Plains, The (Thomson),
102

plucked string instruments, 89-110
plunger, 310,310,334
Роёте de I'extase (Poem of Ecstasy) (Scriabin),
71,322
Poet and Peasant Overture (von Suppe), 742,
746-56
point (bow), 17
pointillistic texture, 563,604-7
Polin, Claire
use of key clicking, 176
use of multiphonics, 187
Polka and Fugue from Schwanda the Bagpiper
(Weinberger), 378-80
polyphonic texture. See contrapuntal texture
Pomp and Circumstance (Elgar), 17
ponticello. See sul ponticello

Pop Goes the Weasel (Cailliet arr.), 309
portamento, 15
portato, 23
Posaune, 340
positive organ, 481
Powell, Mel, 478-79
Pr&ude a “Uaprits-midi d'un faune" (Debussy),
91,97,182,322,540
Preludes, Us (Liszt), 20,385-86
preparation of score and parts, 178-79,
757-71
accidentals in, 768-69
computer programs, 758,768-70
condensed score, 764-65,778-81
individual parts, 766-71
orchestral scores, 757-61
proofreading, 770-71
reduced score, 762-63
shortcuts, 760,767-68
prepared piano, 471
pris de la table, 99
Principles of Orchestration (RimskyKorsakov), 547л
Printemps (Debussy), 469
Prokofiev, Serge
piccolo writing, 190
solo-tutti orchestration, 612
solo violin writing, 61
tuba-bass doubling, 380
tuba writing, 352
use of piano, 469
use of violin E string, 55
proofreading, 770-71
Prophete, he (Meyerbeer), 480
Psalmus hungaricus (Kodily), 209
Puccini, Giacomo
choral accompaniment, 665
organ writing, 480,482
trumpet writing, 333
use of sul ponticello indication, 32
use of violin A string, 54
viola d'amore writing, 73
Pulcinella (Stravinsky), 87, 708-12
"pulsating" unisons, 283-86
Pultweise, 13
Purcell, Henry, 431
quadruple stops, 11
cello, 80
dividing, 13
double bass, 86
viola, 69
violin, 57
quarter tones, 197
quasi chitarra, 37
quica, 466
Rachmaninoff, Serge, 26
raganella, 460
rain stick, 459
RJkdczy March (Berlioz), 346
ranges
alto clarinet, 215,788
alto flute, 191,787
alto trombone, 345,790
for amateur performers, 742

banjo, 106-7,787
baritone, 355,790
bass clarinet, 212,788
basset horn, 215
bass flute, 193
bassoon, 221,788
bass trombone, 343,790
bass trumpet, 339,789
brass instruments, 296,303
celesta, 475,792
cello, 76,786
chimes, 441,791
cimbalom, 449-50
clarinet, 206,788
contrabass clarinet, 216, 788
contrabassoon, 226, 788
crotales, 442
D clarinet, 211,788
double bass, 84,786
Et clarinet, 211,788
English hom, 199,788
euphonium, 354,790
flexatone, 444
flugelhom, 340
flute, 181,787
glockenspiel, 441,791
guitar, 102,787
harmonium, 483,792
harp, 90,786
harpsichord, 478,792
heckelphone, 203
hom, 315-16, 789
mandolin, 103,787
marimba, 438,791
musical saw, 444
natural hom, 313,314
oboe, 194-95,787
oboe d'amore, 201
organ, 480-81, 792
piano, 470,791
piccolo, 189,787
roto toms, 448,449
saxophone family, 218,788-89
tenor trombone, 342,789
timpani, 445, 790
trumpets, 327,329,331,789
tuba, 350,790
vibraphone, 439,791
viola, 66, 786
viola d'amore, 74
violin, 52,786
vocal, 639
xylophone, 437,790
rape guiro, 460
Rapsodie espagnole (Ravel), 305
ratchet, 460
Ratsche, 460
Ravel, Maurice, 5
alto flute writing, 191
brass writing, 305,373-74
composition method of, 6
contrabassoon writing, 228
doublings of, 570
flute writing, 186,188
harp writing, 92,98
hom writing, 318

sopranino saxophone writing, 219
transcriptions of, 667,668-69,699-708
tuba writing, 351,352
use of string glissando, 15
written-out effects, 673-75
Read, Gardner, 49
recitatives, 640-42
recorder consort, 165n, 166
reco-reco, 460
reduced scores, 762-63. See also piano
reductions
reed aerophones. See woodwind section;
individual instruments
reed organ, 483
reeds, 778
rehearsal letters or numbers, 766
Reiche, Anton, 364n
Relata П (Babbitt), 195л
relative pitch, 639
Renaissance
brass instruments in, 296,357-58
double reed instruments in, 203
instrumentation in, 4
vocal music in, 611
repeat marks, 767
repetition, orchestrating, 418-23
Requiem (Faurt), 157-58
Requiem (Mozart), 345-46
Requiem (Verdi), 30
Respighi, Ottorino, 495n
double bass writing, 87
mandolin writing, 104
Retablo de maese Pedro (Falla), 478
Reubke, Julius, 480
Reynolds, Verne, 312
Rhapsody in Blue (Gershwin), 107-8,175,309,
335,424
Rheingold, Das (Wagner), 455
ribs (violin), 8
Ricker, Raymon, 227
ricochet, 27
Riemann, Hugo, 708n, 709
Rienzi (Wagner), 355,513
rim (cymbal), 452
rim shot, 461-62
Rimsky-Korsakov, Nikolay
bowing indications, 27,28
brass writing, 305
clarinet writing, 207
doublings of, 570
flute writing, 185
hom writing, 321,322
on orchestration, 230
orchestration book, 5,547n
orchestration of varied texture, 586-87
percussion writing, 501-5
use of violin D string, 54
Ring des Nibelungen, Der (Wagner), 350
"rip," 426-27
Rochberg, George, 61
Rococo Variations (Tchaikovsky), 81
Rogers, Bernard, 486
rolls
bass drum, 463,595
cimbalom writing, 450
cymbals, 453,574

rolls (continued)
maracas, 459
marimba, 439
snare drum, 461
tambourine, 466
timpani, 446,595
triangle, 455
wood block, 458
xylophone, 437
Roman Carnival Overture (Berlioz), 200,
392-96,599-601
Romance for Violin and Orchestra (Beethoven),
612
Romantic era
chord spacing for winds, 255
instrumentation in, 5
percussion instruments in, 431
trumpet in, 329
viola in, 71
woodwind instruments in, 177
Romeo and Juliet (Tchaikovsky), 21,570-71
Rosamunde (Schubert), 382-84
Rosenkavalier, Der (Strauss), 324,476-77
Rossini, Gioachino
cello writing, 78-79
flute writing, 183,187
guitar writing, 102
percussion writing, 529-31
woodwind writing, 238-41
roto toms, 432,448-49,773
roto-tom-tom, 448
Rouse, Christopher
solo cello writing, 81
use of anvil, 455
use of brake drums, 457
use of hammer, 461
use of lion's roar, 466
use of Wagner tuba, 354
Royal Fireworks Music (Handel), 358-61
"Riickblick" (Schubert), 160
Riihrtrommel, 462
Sacre du printemps, Le (Stravinsky), 41,60,72,
174,192,214,222,223,242,265-70,
336,536-39
St. John Passion (Bach), 73
ваии-Эаёпз, Camille
organ writing, 480,481-82
piano accompaniments, 162
solo-tutti orchestration, 616-18
use of piano, 469
use of scordatura, 40
use of string harmonics, 47
Saitta, Carmelo, 432
Salome (Strauss), 187,204,214,226-27,323
saltando, 26
Salzedo, Carlos, harp writing, 92,99
sand block (sandpaper block), 436,459
sans sourdine, 40
saw. See musical saw
Sax, Adolphe, 217
saxophone family, 164,165-67,217,217-21
orchestral passages for, 219-21
ranges of, 218-19,788-89
registral characteristics, 218-19
score order of, 177, 758

transpositions, 170,218
vibrato, 170
Schellen, 457
Schelomo (Bloch), 81,448, 590-95
Schlage doch gewiinschte Stunde (Hoffman), 431
Schoenberg, Arnold
contrabass trombone writing, 349
contrapuntal brass writing, 408-12
doublings of, 595,599
glockenspiel writing, 441
mandolin writing, 104
orchestral works of, 6
orchestration of varied texture, 595-99
solo violin writing, 61
transcriptions of, 667,713-15,726-41,
782-83
tuba writing, 349,354
Schubert, Franz
bowing indications, 18
climactic use of brass, 413-16
double bass writing, 116
doublings of, 572
flute writing, 187
horn writing, 313
piano accompaniments, 160
trombone-bassoon-string doubling,
382-84
woodwind section writing, 230-38
Schuller, Gunther, 226
contrabass clarinet writing, 217
oboe d'amore writing, 201
on unison horns, 376
woodwind writing, 288-89
Schuman, William
percussion writing, 513
use of "natural" indication, 33
woodwind homophonic writing, 259-60
Schumann, Robert
chord spadngs of, 565-66
foreground string writing, 132
ophicleide writing, 355
organ writing, 480 piano music, 292-93
reorchestrations of works by, 6
solo cello writing, 81
solo-tutti orchestration, 612-13
transcriptions of, 743-46
use of alternating instrument choirs,
271-73
woodwind homophonic writing, 258-59
Schwanendreher, Der (Hindemith), 68, 71
Schwantner, Joseph, 443
percussion writing, 513
use of cowbells, 455
scordatura, 40-41,87
score order and setups, 243,297,316,486-94
expanded concert band, 775
marching band, 774
orchestral score, 757-61
standard concert band, 774-75,777
wind ensemble, 776
woodwind section, 177
score preparation, 757-71
Scriabin, Alexander
horn writing, 322
viola writing, 71

In d e x

scroll (violin), 8,8
second partial, 42-43
second position, 10
cello, 77
double bass, 85
viola, 66
violin, 52-53
sega cantante, 443
Semiramide Overture (Rossini), 238-41
sempre legato, 767
sempre stacc., 767
senza basso, 86
senza sordino, 40,322,333,334
senza vibrato, 14,171
separate bow staccato, 23-24
Serenade (Britten), 299
Serenade (Schoenberg), 104
Serenade for Strings (Tchaikovsky), 145-47
Session IV (Bolcom), 436
Sessions, Roger
trombone writing, 347
use of piano, 469
Seven Studies on Themes of Paul Klee
(Schuller), 288-89
sforzando attack, 25,304,424-25,601-2
shaken or stroked percussion, 443-45
shawm, 203
Sheherazade (Rimsky-Korsakov), 28,54,305,
586-87
Sheng, Bright, 432,454
Shostakovich, Dmitri
bowing indications, 27
foreground string writing, 132-33
oboe writing, 196
percussion writing, 492,535
piano writing, 469,472-73
Sibelius, Jean
accompanimental texture, 630-32
English horn writing, 200
side drum, 461. See also snare drum
Siegfried (Wagner), 319,381-82
Siloti, Alexander, 469n
sim., 767
Simple Symphony, A (Britten), 38 '•
Sinfonia concertante, K. 297 (Mozart), 1%
Sinfonia concertante, K. 364 (Mozart), 41,71
Sinfonia domestica (Strauss), 201,202,220
Sinfonietta (Dahl), 215
Singende Sage, 443
single reed, 166
single reed instruments, 166,205-21
sirens, 466
Six Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 6 (Webern), 59
sizzle cymbal, 453-54
slapstick, 436,460
slap tonguing, 175-76
Slavonic Dance No. 8 (DvoISk), 681-88
sleigh bells, 436,457
slide (trombone), 302-3,341
slide glissando (trombone), 347
slit drum, 436,460-61
slurred spiccato, 26
slurred staccato, 24-25
slurs, 770
Smetana, Bedrich, 555-57
snap pizzicato, 36-37

snare drum, 431-32,432,461-62
in opera orchestra, 5
orchestral uses of, 501,509,513,529
soft tonguing, 172
horn, 321
woodwind instruments, 283
solotone mute, 309,309,334
sonagli, 457
Sonata for Flute, Viola, and Harp (Debussy), 71
Sonata for Viola d'amore and Piano
(Hindemith), 73
sonnailles, 455
sons ttouffis, 99
sopranino saxophone, 165,170,219
transposition, 169,218
soprano saxophone, 165,217
transposition, 169,218
soprano voice, 639
sostenuto pedal, 470
soundboard (violin), 8
sound post (violin), 8
Sousa, John Philipp, 773
Sousaphone, 350n
Spanish instruments, 156-57,458-59,465,
501
spiccato, 26-28,32,36,587
spontaneous spiccato, 26
staccato
alto clarinet, 215
bass darinet, 213
as bowing indication, 23-25
darinet, 207,211
contrabassoon, 226
horn, 320
oboe, 1%
woodwind instruments, 172
Stachowski, Marel, 290
Stamitz, Johann, 65
steel drums, 436,443
sticks, percussion, 434-35,457,462,463,464,
466
Stone, Kurt, 49,50,100,177n, 433л
stopped hom, 313,322-23
straight mute, 308,308,408,428
Strauss, Johann
woodwind section writing, 249-52
zithgr writing, 108,109-10
Strauss, Richard
bass darinet writing, 214
basset hom writing, 216
celesta writing, 476-77
cello writing, 81-82
contrabassoon writing, 226-27
contrabass trombone writing, 349
d>clarinet writing, 212
euphonium writing, 354
harmonium writing, 483-85
harpsichord writing, 478
hedcelphone writing, 204
hom-cello doubling, 376-77
hom writing, 242,318,321,323,324,376
oboe d'amore writing, 201,202
organ writing, 480
revision of Berlioz's orchestration book, 5,
330,435
saxophone writing, 220

833

Strauss, Richard (continued)
solo violin writing, 62
trumpet writing, 329
tuba writing, 350
use of col legno indication, 32
use of divided strings, 13-14
use of flutter tonguing, 187,306
use of violin E string, 55
use of wind machine, 467
viola writing, 71, 72
woodwind serenades, 229
Stravinsky, Igor, 5
alto flute writing, 191,192
bass clarinet writing, 214
bassoon writing, 222,223,242
bowing indications, 24,26
brass writing, 364-65
chord spadngs of, 255,282
cimbalom writing, 450
clarinet writing, 208
composition method of, 6
contrapuntal brass writing, 397-98
comet writing, 338
cutout score of, 760-61
double bass writing, 87
flugelhom writing, 340
guitar writing, 102-3
harp writing, 92
mandolin writing-,-104
percussion writing, 493-94,536-39
piano writing, 469,471-72
solo violin writing, 61
transcriptions of, 668,708-12
trumpet writing, 336
tuba writing, 349
use of combined articulations, 286-87
use of scordatura, 41
use of violin harmonics, 60
viola writing, 72
woodwind contrapuntal writing, 265-70
woodwind writing, 174
string drum, 466
string instruments. See also string section;
violin family; individual instruments
bowed, 7-88
names and abbreviations for, 793
plucked,89-110
String Quartet No. 1 (Borodin), 47-48
String Quartet No. 4 (Bartok), 36-37
String Quartet No. 5 (Bart6k), 36
string quartets, 111-16
strings (violin), 8
string section. See also individual instruments
as accompanist, 152-58
background material for, 118
Classical orchestra, 4
contrapuntal writing for, 112,133-42
contrasted with woodwind section, 270-75
doublings in, 129-33,146,147,157,276-82
foreground material for, 118-33
homophonic writing for, 143-52
individuality within ensemble, 111-18
instrumentation, 8
instrument ranges in, 111, 116
middleground material for, 118
registral choices for, 111, 135,143-45

Romantic orchestra, 5,70-71
scoring for, 111-63
textural and timbral changes in, 125-29
transcriptions of piano music, 159-62
voice crossings in. 111, 114-15,282
strokes
bass drum, 463
snare drum, 461
subharmonics, 49
subtones, 208-9
Suite for Strings in E (Foote), 38
Suite franqaise (Milhaud), 716-26,782-83
sul G (also E, A, D), 44,54, 603
sul ponticello, 32,731,782
sul tasto, 31-32,50,782
Suppe, Franz von, transcriptions of, 742,
746-56
sur la touche, 31-32
"Surprise" Symphony (Haydn), 326
suspended cymbals, 432,453
Siissmayr, Franz Xavier, 345
Swan ofTuonela, The (Sibelius), 200
Sweeney, Joe, 106
Sylvester, Robert, 75
sympathetic strings, 73
Symphonic Dances (Rachmaninoff), 26
Symphonic Metamorphoses (Hindemith), 24,
398-402
Symphonie fantastique (Berlioz), 30,33,71,
198,211,242,276-77,329,447
Symphonies de timbres (HaubenstockRamati), 445
Symphony, Op. 21 (Webern), 604-6
Symphony for Drums and Wind Orchestra
(Benson), 522-26
Symphony in В-flat (СУIndy), 337
Symphony in D minor (Franck), 417-18
Symphony in G Major (Haydn), 315
Symphony in Three Movements (Stravinsky),
24
Symphony No. 1 (Barber), 324,550-52
Symphony No. 1 (Beethoven), 173,601
Symphony No. 1 (Brahms), 34-35,53,61-62,
184,277,314,317,346,764-65
Symphony No. 1 (Mahler), 84,318,334,351,
568,762-63
Symphony No. 1 (Martin?), 31
Symphony No. 1 (Rouse), 354,461
Symphony No. 1 (Schumann), 271-73,
565-66
Symphony No. 1 (Shostakovich), 196,469,
472-73
Symphony No. 2 (Brahms), 270,526-29
Symphony No. 2 (Mahler), 330
Symphony No. 2 (Schumann), 132,258-59
Symphony No. 2 (Sessions), 347,469
Symphony No. 3 (Beethoven), 273-75,300,
327
Symphony No. 3 (Brahms), 118-24,566-68
Symphony No. 3 (Copland), 59,457,463,469
Symphony No. 3 (Harris), 78
Symphony No. 3 (Mahler), 212
Symphony No. 3 (Saint-Saens), 469,480,
481-82
Symphony No. 4 (Beethoven), 84
Symphony No. 4 (Brahms), 182

Symphony No. 4 (Diamond), 39
Symphony No. 4 (Mahler), 26,41,323,325,
570,573-75,772
Symphony No. 4 (Martin), 469
Symphony No. 4 (Mendelssohn), 19-20,173,
185,196
Symphony No. 4 (Tchaikovsky), 38,195-96,
418-23,532-34
Symphony No. 5 (Beethoven), 71, 84,328,
362-63
Symphony No. 5 (Prokofiev), 352,380,469
Symphony No. 5 (Schubert), 18,187
Symphony No. 5 (Shostakovich), 469,535
Symphony No. 5 (Tchaikovsky), 54,207,321
Symphony No. 6 (Beethoven), 317,328,671
Symphony No. 6 (Mahler), 353,455,461
Symphony No. 6 (Shostakovich), 132-33,492
Symphony No. 6 (Tchaikovsky), 22,223,
279-81
Symphony No. 6 (Vaughan Williams), 307
Symphony No. 7 (Beethoven), 133-35,578
Symphony No. 7 (Bruckner), 330,366-71
Symphony No. 7 (Mahler), 16,104,210
Symphony No. 8 (Beethoven), 172
Symphony No. 8 (Mahler), 480
Symphony No. 8 (Schubert), 230-38,572
Symphony No. 8 (Shostakovich), 27
Symphony No. 9 (Beethoven), 346,431,447,
454,497-500,554-55
Symphony No. 9 (Bruckner), 25
Symphony No. 9 (DvoKk), 182
Symphony No. 9 (Schubert), 313,413-16
Symphony No. 10 (Mahler), 15
Symphony No. 29 (Mozart), 243-45
Symphony No. 38 (Mozart), 261-62
Symphony No. 39 (Mozart), 210
Symphony No. 40 (Mozart), 300,552-53
Symphony No. 41, "Jupiter" (Mozart),
578-83
Symphony No. 45, "Farewell" (Haydn), 314
Symphony No. 94, "Surprise" (Haydn), 326
Symphony No. 103, "Drum Roll" (Haydn),
126-27,446
Symphony of Psalms (Stravinsky), 282,286-87
Synchronisms No. 6 (Davidovsky), 436
table (violin), 8
tabor. See field drum
tailpiece (violin), 8,9
Takemitsu, Torn, 432
Tales from the Vienna Woods (J. Strauss), 108,
109-10
tambour de basque, 465
tambourine, 431,432,436,465-66,501
Tamburin, 465
tamburo basco, 465
tamburo piccolo, 461
tam-tam, 432,456,536
Tan Dun, 432,454
Tango (Stravinsky), 102-3
Tannhiiuser Overture (Wagner), 208
Tartini, Giuseppe, 16
Taylor, George, 65
Tchaikovsky, Peter Ilyich
bassoon writing, 223
bowings of string passages, 21,22

celesta writing, 476
clarinet writing, 207
climactic use of brass, 418-23
comet writing, 337-38
doublings of, 279-81,386-88,570-71
flute writing, 182,188
harp writing, 93-94,101
homophonic string writing, 145-47
horn writing, 321
melody-accompaniment orchestration,
558-59
oboe writing, 195-96
percussion writing, 505,532-34
solo cello writing, 81
solo-tutti orchestration, 613-15,627-28
solo violin writing, 61
trumpet writing, 329
use of color contrasts, 618-19
use of pizzicato, 38
use of violin G string, 54
Telemann, George Philipp, 299
Tempel-Blocke, 458
temple blocks, 436,458
temple-blocs, 458
tenor clef
cello parts, 76
double bass parts, 84
trombone parts, 342
tenor drum, 432,462
tenor saxophone, 165,217. See also
saxophone family
transposition, 169,218
tenor trombone, 341,342-43. See also
trombone
range of, 342, 789
score order of, 760
tenor (Wagner) tuba, 350,354-55
tenor voice, 639
theater orchestras, 337
theme and variations, 111-18
Theme and Variations, Op. 43 (Schoenberg),
667,726-41,782-83
Third Man, The (film), 108
third partial, 43
third position, 10
cello, 77
double bass, 85
viola, 66
violin, 52-53
Thomson, Virgil, 102
Threni (Stravinsky), 340
Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima
(Penderecki), 148-51
"throat tones" (clarinet), 206
thunder sheet, 457
ties, 770
Till Eulenspiegel (Strauss), 212,242,318,323
timbales, 436,464
timbales (timpani), 445
timbales cubaines, 464
Time Cycle (Foss), 50
time signatures, score placement of,;758
timpanetti, 464
timpani, 431,432,433,445-48
in bands, 773
cello doubling, 82

836

In d e x

timpani (continued)
in Classical orchestra, 5,297
muting, 446
orchestral uses of, 513,526,532,535,536,
542,595
out-of-harmony pitches, 435
ranges and tuning of, 445,447,790
roto toms with, 448-49
tin whistle, 436,451-52
tom-toms, 432,463-64
Tom-Tom-Spiel, 448
tone poems, 241-42
tone rows, 604
tonguing
bassoon, 222
brass instruments, 304-5
clarinet, 207
contrabassoon, 226
flute, 185
hom, 320-22
oboe, 196-97
trombone, 345-46
trumpet, 332-33
tuba, 351-53
woodwind instruments, 171-72,175-76,
283-87
Tosca (Puccini), 480
Toscanini, Arturo, 6
"touch 4th" harmonics, 57-58,74,80
"touch 5th" harmonics, 58
"touch major 3rd" harmonics, 58
"touch minor 3rd" harmonics, 59
Tourte, Francois, 16
tous, 14
Tower, Joan, 81
use of cowbells, 455
toy piano, 471
transcriptions
to available combinations, 741-56
band or wind ensemble to orchestra, 715-41
Baroque music, 365,666
chamber ensemble to orchestra, 708-15
compared with arrangements, 667
contrapuntal texture, 672
implied harmonies and melodies, 672
nineteenth century, 666
orchestra to band or wind ensemble,
782-83
piano to orchestra, 6,668-708
piano to strings, 159-62
piano to winds and strings, 291-93
value of, 666-67,715
transpositions
alto clarinet, 215
bass clarinet, 212
basset hom, 215
bass trumpet, 339
brass instruments, 297
cello, 76
contrabass clarinet, 216
comet, 337
crotales, 442
D clarinet, 211
double bass, 9,83
Et clarinet, 211
glockenspiel, 441

hom, 301,314,317
oboe da cacda, 203
oboe d'amore, 201
principle of, 167-68
saxophone family, 218
tenor banjo, 106л
trumpet, 301,327-28
trumpets, 336
Wagner tuba, 354
woodwind instruments, 167-70
xylophone, 437
zither, 109
Traviata, La (Verdi), 643
Treatise on Instrumentation (Berlioz), 330,435
treble clef
bass clarinet parts, 212
cello parts, 76
double bass parts, 84
harp parts, 93
marimba parts, 438
viola d'amore parts, 74
viola parts, 66
violin parts, 52
Wagner tuba parts, 354
xylophone parts, 437
tremolos
bassoon, 222-23
brass instruments, 307
clarinet, 209
English hom, 201
flexatone, 444
flute, 185-66
harp, 100
hom, 323-24
oboe, 197
piano, 471
_ string, 29-31,32,156-57,782
timpani, 446-47
Triangel, 454
triangle, 431-32,436,454-55
in opera orchestra, 5
orchestral uses of, 497,501,509
triangolo, 454
trills
bassoon, 222-23
brass instruments, 307
clarinet, 209
English hom, 201
flute, 185-86
harp, 100
hom, 323
Up, 307
oboe, 197
string, 28-29
tambourine, 466
triangle, 455
trumpet, 335
tuba, 353
vibraphone, 439
xylophone, 437
Trio Sonata in G Major (Gallo), 708-12
Triple Concerto (Beethoven), 81
triple stops, 11,565
cello, 80
dividing, 13
double bass, 86

viola, 69
violin, 56
triple tonguing
bassoon, 222
brass instruments, 304,305
darinet, 207
flute, 185
hom, 321
oboe, 1%
trombone, 345-46
trumpet, 332-33
tuba, 352
woodwind instruments, 172-73,283
Tristan und Isolde (Wagner), 77-78,200,214
Trojahn, Manfred, 195n
tromba, 325
trombone, 302,341
articulations and tonguing, 345-46
in Classical period, 362
doubling other instruments, 382-91
glissandi, 306-7,347
mouthpiece, 297
mutes for, 307-11,347
pedal tones of, 303
playing positions, 342-43
range and registral charaderistics, 342
skips on, 340
slide, 302-3,341
staves for, 298
triggers, 343
trombone family, 340-49,341
Trompete, 325
trompette, 325
trumpet, 295,302,325,325-37
articulations and tonguing, 332-33
crooks and valves, 301-2,327-31
doubling other instruments, 380,389-91,575
glissandi, 306-7,335-36
modem instrument, 330-37
mouthpiece, 297
mutes for, 307-11,333-35
pedal tones of, 303
ranges of, 327,329,331,789
registral charaderistics, 331-32
score order of, 760
slide, 331
staves for, 298
trills, 335
trumpet family, 326. See also individual
instruments
tuba, 349,349-54
articulation and tonguing, 351-53
doubling other instruments, 353,380-81,
386-91
flutter tonguing, 354
glissandi, 306-7
mouthpiece, 297
mute for, 307,353
range of, 350,790
registral charaderistics, 350-51
skips on, 352
staves for, 298
trills, 353
valves, 350
writing for multiple tubas, 349-50
tuba family, 349-54

tubular bells, 441
tumba, 465
tunings
banjo, 106-7
brass instruments, 303
cello, 9,76
double bass, 9,83
gong, 456
guitar, 102
harp, 90
mandolin, 103
scordatura, 40-41,87
timpani, 445,447
viola, 9,66
viola d'amore, 73
violin, 9,52
zither, 109
Turandot (Puccini), 665
Turkish instruments, 431-32,452,497
Turm-Musik, 364
tutti, 14,548-57
urn corda pedal, 470,672
Unanswered Question, The (Ives), 310
undertones, 49
Ung, Chinary, 432
unisoni, 12
unison tutti, 548-59
up-bow, 17,18-19,23,25
upright piano, 471
Valse, La (Ravel), 15,228,352
valve hom, 313,315-17. See also hom
valves, 301-2
valve trombone, 349
valve trumpet, 329-30,577. See also trumpet
Van Demark, James B., 83
Van Hoesen, K. David, 221
Varfcse, Edgar
use of anvil, 455
use of lion's roar, 466
use of percussion, 432,496
use of siren, 466
Variations on a Theme by Haydn (Brahms), 227
Vaughan Williams, Ralph
brass writing, 307
viola writing, 71
works for band, 773
velvetone mute, 310
Ventilhom, 313
Verdi, Giuseppe
aria accompaniments, 643-44
choral accompaniment, 665
contrabass trombone writing, 349
mandolin writing, 104
ophideide writing, 355
organ writing, 480,482
percussion writing, 435
trumpet writing, 333
use of bowed tremolo, 30
vib., 38
vibrafono, 439
Vibraphon, 439
vibraphone, 432,439-40
in bands, 773
range of, 439,791

838

IN DEX

vibraslap, 436,459—60
vibrato
musical saw, 444
vibraphone, 439
violin family, 14,49
woodwind instruments, 170-71
Villa-Lobos, Heitor, 432
viola, 7,65,65-72. See also violin family
bow hand positions, 16-17
bowings, 17-28
cello doubling, 82
fingering positions, 10,66-67
harmonics, 45,46-48
multiple stops for, 11,68-69
oboe doubling, 258
pizzicato techniques, 33-39
playing position, 65
range of, 66,786
registral characteristics, 122
solo passages for, 71-72
string timbral characteristics, 67-68
tuning of, 9,66
Viola Concerto (Bartdk), 71
Viola Concerto (Walton), 71
viola d'amore, 73-75
Viola Sonata (Hindemith), 67
viole d'amour, 73
violin, 7 ,8,51,51-65. See also violin family
bow hand positions, 16-47
bowings, 17-28
chromatic passages on, 64-65
fingering positions, 10,52-53
harmonics, 44,46-48,57-60
multiple stops for, 11,55-57
open strings, 53
pizzicato techniques, 33-39
playing position, 51
range of, 52,786
registral characteristics, 121-22
skips on, 63-64
solo passages for, 60-63
string nomenclature, 52
string timbral characteristics, 53-55,548
tuning of, 9,52
Violin Concerto (Beethoven), 532,636-37
Violin Concerto (Berg), 347
Violin Concerto (Mendelssohn), 28,629-30
Violin Concerto (Saint-Saens), 47
Violin Concerto (Sibelius), 630-32
Violin Concerto (Tchaikovsky), 618-19,
627-28
Violin Concerto in G minor (Prokofiev), 612
Violin Concerto No. 2 (Bartdk), 95,348
Violine, 51
violin family, 7-50. See also string section
bowings, 17-28
bows, 16-17
chord arpeggiation, 11
construction of, 8-9
contemporary techniques, 49-50,149-51
divided strings, 12-14,55,144
fingering positions, 10
glissando and portamento, 15-16
harmonics, 41-49
measured effects, 30-31
multiple stops for, 11

musical strengths of, 7-8
mutes, 39-40,238
open string vibrato simulation, 14
pizzicato techniques, 33-39
scordatura tunings, 40-41,87
string nomenclature, 44
tremolos, 29-31
trills, 28-29
tunings, 9
unusual bow placements, 31-33
vibrato for, 14,49
inolino, 51
violon, 51
Violoncell, 75
violoncelle, 75
violoncello. See cello
Vivaldi, Antonio, 16,469n
brass writing, 299
concertos transcribed by Bach, 666
contrapuntal string writing, 135-37
viola d'amore writing, 73
vocal music
accompaniment of, 639-65
arias and orchestral songs, 643-52
chorus and orchestra, 658-65
choruses, 658-65
operatic ensembles, 652-58
ranges, 639
recitatives, 640-42
voice crossings, in string parts, 111, 114-15,
282
Wagner, Richard
bass clarinet writing, 213-14
bass trumpet writing, 339
cello writing, 77-78
clarinet writing, 208
contrabass trombone writing, 349
contrapuntal writing, 584-85
double bass writing, 85
doublings of, 389-91,575-78
English horn writing, 200
horn writing, 313,315,319,357,376
ophideide writing, 355
orchestral sound of, 3
organ writing, 480,482
percussion writing, 513
reorchestration of other composers'
works, 6
trombone writing, 344
trumpet writing, 357
tuba-woodwind doubling, 381-82
tuba writing, 350,352,353
use of anvil, 455
use of measured effects, 31
viola writing, 70,71
violin writing, 63
Wagner tuba, 296,350,354
mute for, 307
score order of, 298,758
Waldhom, 312
Walkiire, Die (Wagner), 339
Walton, William
recitatives, 642
solo cello writing, 81
viola writing, 71

Ward, Samuel A., 780-81
Water Music (Handel), 358
wa-wa mute, 309,334,424
Weber, Carl Maria von
bowing indications, 25
choral accompaniment, 665
chord spacings of, 564-65
clarinet writing, 242
contrapuntal string writing, 139-40
guitar writing, 102
hom writing, 319
melody-accompaniment orchestration,
560-61
use of muted strings, 39-40
Webern, Anton
composition method of, 6
pointillistic scoring, 604-7
use of violin harmonics, 59
Weinberger, Jaromfr, 378-80
Weingartner, Felix, 6
whip, 460
whispa mute, 309,309,334
whistles, 436,451-52
whistle tones, 176-77
"white tone," 171
William Tell Overture (Rossini), 78-79,183
wind chimes, 456
bamboo, 456
glass, 436,456
metal, 436,456
wind ensembles, 229. See also bands and
band music
brass instrumentation in, 337,340,354
compared with bands, 773
scoring for, 772-84
wind instruments. See aerophones; brass
instruments; woodwind instruments
wind machine, 467
Windows (Druckman), 429-30
Wirbeltrommel, 462
wire brushes, 439,453,457,471
wood blocks, 436,457-58
orchestral uses of, 508,542
wooden idiophones, 457-61
wooden shaker, 436
woodwind instruments, 164-79. See also
woodwind section; individual
instruments
alternate fingerings, 603
articulation, tonguing, and phrasing,
171-73,283-87
classification schemes for, 165-67

construction of, 164-65
flutter tonguing, 174
glissandi, 175
muting, 174
names and abbreviations for, 793
playing techniques, 170-77
registral characteristics, 170,178,180,255,
269-70
scoring for, 178-79
solo and chamber music for, 290
special effects for, 175-77,288-90
vibrato, 170-71
woodwind quintet, 243n, 312
woodwind section, 177. See also individual
instruments
Classical orchestra, 4,177
contrapuntal writing for, 261-70
as contrasting color, 270-75
doubling other instruments, 276-82
doublings in, 230, 233-35,238-41,259-60,
283-86,292
functions of, 229
homophonic writing for, 252-60
horns in, 229,243-45,312
late nineteenth and twentieth centuries,
177
role in orchestra, 229-38
Romantic orchestra, 5,177
score order of, 758
scoring for, 229-94
timbral choices in, 241-43
transcriptions of piano music, 291-93
Wozzeck (Berg), 87,665
written pitch, 167-70
xilofono, 437
Xylophon, 437
xylophone, 432,432,437-38
in bands, 773
orchestral uses of, 506,513,714-15
range oi, 437,790
Ye, Xiougang, 432
Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, The
(Britten), 263-65,348
Zandonai, Riccardo, 193
Zauberflote, Die (Mozart), 190
Zeitlin, Zvi, 53
Zimbeln, 442
Zimmermann, Bemd Alois, 87
zither, 108,108-10

T H E ST U D Y O F ORCHESTRATION
TIIIRD EDITION
S A M U E L

A D L E R

to ACCOMPANY
7/ie S tu d y o f
- «roll

O r c h e s tr a tio n
W»ikbo»i to A«omp*ny
Tf№Sftfdye/OrrtMtfJCfe*
ГЛИМ»:л
*м»*4ДПи
I w e t л СО?»
it ?*<•Qfrt мУм*
*Jwniv<id

ncwis c4 t

n i K b i t f « s u fe h tll

>!\ Of >lV t

£<*«( П» BfiNniOhJ* Л1И

ччл'л'тК'о, Y*<

n »9ri>VcttФ vrt#?bop'<*
кЛгл; »ЫМ!г«?,'с!

ITAlnXl.UMl j

Mod

“C liim m i V x * # ' r a w t o t t f o

“<*•>«dltapcwftt

FViMu*<<.f Л.-5

kr 11#Jc-ул « («« to rW#coj

ЛЪо |

рмсвс**

•MiisK'vv.unpi-* горп*н-л1 j (ia\i

ivfrvihcd i.)^

Six EnhjftWd Ccoipo<i Dfec«

ccoij>.»xrr. ny4te*ik*>, л-Til Myit

•Nov)/

тимс feampfci r

gtawrdanty
SAMUt I AIMI К Ivn
1гЛ »Л 1Ч fn v

mr bur hu-»ln4l |

• « I J W , 4 U O i , 4 t r t X h v C v O fC tU n

7

ИWJ «44* wpit•■>«f/«

t»i4 »*n1 im « I h
1»*»Л А л Л m i *vva*
r#v*s- *1 tbr Unmiiey « Nwih Теме (IW -i »«•>..t
Mk*.1 ы M use ol Ok UfeVfrtiy o f fc x ta tr r

iiiH w iA iu i m i n u t H t w * i a i

( /.леиi « <*9X*rtar«4 <Pi •
r«*tW м
teuiM kfco*cl
/Arrtwrtctfb tc/4и л*ч

fv ^i-*vч^счги'.ыкг'»—

Г>П.Чг.,Ч.и1а.-Г(ч(&,1И^
*>и*ч<и(Д* |i ||иIk I/iiJ

w4t«A.lb.4S!f*nf>iUlr<l•>Г*С»1$*/.'К»>Иди1«УOr

. <0; fOVJh►OTVQ»'<yvftfefr
<lp* c f iM lf r * A n o w tfti)

м

в ш

*1j ^j

v

Wtotot «Фл'<|►«<* »

к
^ ' ■*л^/ *6 yyU?

<tr

SEK

1пкл»%MДОДОГЧV»»\

•v A iJv .''-

-AvXvwv-!^уДКД »' .•■ji C

irtV.IT.**^ »С*ЗС«>И!ЧЛ|Г

I’-Vmw
15
o;f<*i»rf*Wi»>a;f#/vA*i

J rt<vfcy\

w.w sc-яюг,

Mu VOiiC •к*ооч
■ y/w.wwi ori oi .com

Лгла* 11nCtf 01lvu\»vrt; •.<«
•>.-**'.
**1‘ IK) <!/'»■->
riK«UK«WvtH^a'.Hx.OVl4»<

